By Jim Wyckoff O Kitco News Comex gold futures prices are trading moderately lower Friday morning and have hit a fresh 4.5-month low as most markets are under selling pressure following the surprise news that market-place-heavyweight JP Morgan has suffered a massive trading loss. The key outside markets—crude oil and the U.S. dollar index—are also in a bearish mode for the precious metals Friday, as the dollar index is firmer and crude oil prices are lower. June gold last traded down $10.60 at $1,584.90 an ounce. Spot gold was last quoted down $8.70 an ounce at $1,585.25. July Comex silver last traded down $0.518 at $28.66 an ounce. The big news of the week came after the markets closed Thursday, when an embarrassed JP Morgan announced one of its hot shot trader’s (the London whale) strategies had gone awry--by $2 billion or more in just a few weeks’ time. The markets were slapped into an even keener “risk-off” mode on this massive trading loss by JP. Most market traders Friday morning are exhibiting a “when in doubt, get out” modality. Interesting how even “the smartest guys in the room” (JP Morgan and Jamie Dimon) can get badly burned and made to look like fools by the market place. Such is a stark reminder of the power and autonomy of markets, and what happens to those who do not respect that power. There is not one trader or investor in the market place, who has been at it for any length of time at all, who has not been humbled by the markets, including this veteran market watcher. However, we “little guys” have never been humbled to the tune of 2 billion bucks. Jamie is going to have a hard time living this one down. Some more weak economic data coming out of China overnight has also cast a negative tone over the raw commodity markets, including gold and silver. News coming out of the EU Friday finds a little more hope that Greece’s political leaders can form a coalition government. European bond yields have also backed off just a bit Friday, from the higher levels seen earlier this week. However, the JP Morgan news is overshadowing the EU news Friday. The U.S. dollar index is trading firmer Friday morning and hit another fresh seven-week high overnight. The greenback has benefited recently on fresh safe-haven demand due to the EU situation, and now the JP Morgan news. Crude oil futures prices are trading lower Friday morning after hitting a 4.5-month low on Wednesday. Crude oil remains in a bearish fundamental and technical posture. These two key markets will continue to have a daily influence on the precious metals markets. The London A.M. gold fixing was $1,580.75 versus the previous London P.M. fixing of $1,598.50. U.S. economic data due for release Friday includes the producer price index and the University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey. Technically, June gold futures bears have the solid near-term technical advantage and have gained fresh downside momentum this week. A bearish weekly low close on Friday would add to the downside technical momentum. A nine-week-old downtrend is in place on the daily chart. The gold bulls’ next upside near-term price breakout objective is to produce a close above solid technical resistance at this week’s high of $1,644.00. Bears' next near-term downside price objective is closing prices below technical support at the December 2011 low of $1,528.60. First resistance is seen at $1,600.00 and then at Wednesday’s high of $1,607.00. First support is seen at the overnight low of $1,572.00 and then at $1,560.00. July silver futures prices hit another fresh 17-week low Friday and are in a nine-week-old downtrend on the daily bar chart. The silver bears have the solid near-term technical advantage as they are poised to produce a technically bearish weekly low close on Friday. Silver bulls’ next upside price breakout objective is closing prices above psychological resistance at $30.00 an ounce. The next downside price breakout objective for the bears is closing prices below solid technical support at the December 2011 low of $26.50. First resistance is seen at the overnight high of $29.05 and then at $29.50. Next support is seen at the overnight low of $28.475 and then at $28.00. Follow me on Twitter to immediately get the very latest market developments. If you are not on board, then you are not getting key analysis and perspective as fast or as often as you could! Follow me on Twitter to get my very timely intra-day and after-hours briefs on precious metals price action. The precious markets will remain very active. If you want market analysis fast, and in after-hours trading, then follow my up-to-the-second precious metals market perspective on Twitter. It's free, too. My account is @jimwyckoff.