OPEC got some great news lately, Chinese growth is cooling to a ‘cow like’ 8.2% rather than the bullish 8.5% analysts had previously expected for 2012. For oil fundamentals that’s pretty important: Brent has dropped to $112/b. Confused? Don’t be. OPEC would normally be more than happy to maximise receipts to keep prices as high as possible, but even its most vocal members were getting worried they were pushing their luck this time. Prices reached nominal euro / sterling highs in March, and it was hardly a well-kept secret on the trading floors of London that the Saudis had lost control of the market. Riyadh was maxed out, Iranian sanctions were biting, broader OPEC production was slipping. Traders were sticking whatever they could into storage; even the IEA was being brought in to quell market sentiment by threatening a release of stocks. Unless OPEC wanted a 2008 re-run when the oil bubble spectacularly burst, things clearly needed to calm down. So ‘crisis averted’ courtesy of Beijing; but this raises two thorny questions for OPEC to ponder. The first is how much breathing space the cartel is going to get in the short term? More importantly, how will OPEC position itself in a world of vastly conflicting fundamentals, both on the demand and supply side over the next decade? Bridging these temporal concerns with long term structural difficulties will inevitably leave gaps; what’s more, they’re likely to show far earlier than we think. Summer is the first space to watch. Global production is still trundling along close to 90m/b, and OPEC is already pumping above quota at close to 32mb/d. Although Saudi Oil Minister, Ali Naimi, has claimed he wants to see oil trading at $100/b, it’s hard to see where excess supplies will come from to inch prices down. Even if the Saudis could squeeze 2mb/d more, much of that will go in peak seasonal demand across the Gulf for power and transport (some 3mb/d in Saudi alone). Look around the rest of OPEC, and a politically fractured Iraq is about to overtake Iran as the second largest producer in the cartel. That gives us a fair idea as to how deep-seated supply side problems have become. A populist Venezuela, civil strife in Nigeria, civil war in Libya, corruption in Angola, or clapped out monarchical regimes in the Gulf. None of that is going to change anytime soon. What Ali Naimi is actually banking on with his ‘$100/b call’ is that demand side problems prove to be even more dysfunctional than supply side cracks. With the Eurozone going down in Greco-French flames, the US dollar out of sync with debt laden realities, and Asia fighting tooth and nail to prevent a hard landing, he has no lack of evidence. But the relationship that truly matters for oil is ‘Chirabia’ (between Chinese demand and Saudi supply), and that’s where he needs to be careful. Although China has hit internal political rocks, given this is a succession year in Beijing, it’s almost certain the Communist party will loosen monetary policy to get growth back on track sooner rather than later. If China steadies the ship, global sentiment will rapidly change. The 80 million barrels Saudi has in storage won’t last long, nor will healthy inventories build up elsewhere. $130/b would look ‘cheap’ for holiday makers topping up the tank. The point here isn’t to make a big ‘market call’, traders can hedge whatever future options they like, but to highlight how temporal problems will exacerbate structural trends for OPEC. Not only has cartel been struggling to moderate prices in the midst of profound demand side weakness, it still only has one serious excess supply option in the form of Saudi Arabia. Riyadh is obviously no stranger to dealing with dicey demand side issues as the historic swing producer of the cartel, but the next decade provides even greater uncertainty for the Kingdom, precisely because non-OPEC supply is supposedly going to see a 'second revolution', and especially in America. From the US shale experience, many analysts think North America could be producing up to 22mb/d of oil over the next ten years, becoming the world’s single largest producer by 2019. Not to mention sitting on 6.4 trillion ‘unconventional barrels’ of oil across the America’s compared to 1.2 trillion ‘conventional barrels’ in the MENA region. Whether these numbers pan out remains deeply circumspect, but production from North Dakota has already surpassed the smallest player in the cartel, Ecuador by 50,000b/d. US oil imports dropped to under 45% in 2011, and will likely fall further. Any way you look at it, this creates serious doubts for new upstream investments across the cartel - from Riyadh at the top, Kuwait in the middle, to Quito at the bottom. So, cause for celebration, or cause for concern? Well, both actually. The US can be a bit pickier about how much heavy lifting it does for global oil supplies through external security guarantees, not to mention playing tough with awkward producer states. But it’s also going to have to match its energy rhetoric with actual production if non-OPEC supply is going to fill the gaps noted here. The cracks are already showing, and save for some weak Chinese data, would be even more visible today. As America’s own '$4 a gallon disease' attests, the US has to up its export game towards 100mb/d global production if the global economy is to stand any chance of staying on an even keel, and do so pretty quickly. OPEC won’t much like that; in days of old it could just flood the market to wipe out vast swathes of new production to protect its position. But this merely unearths its biggest problem: The geological cost of production has never been more out of step with the geopolitical cost of survival for OPEC states – especially with the Arab Spring morphing into a ‘Salafist Awakening’. Short of totally reshuffling its membership to bring new Latin American, East African, and maybe even Eurasian ‘stars’ into its fold, the cartel is no better placed to moderate prices at the top as it would be to set an effective floor at the bottom. The inevitable result is going to be a very difficult decade, not just for the cartel, but for everyone concerned. The ‘summer of 2012’ might just provide the first temporal glimpse of how hard the structural realities could prove to be. Time to take cover, if you can…