This guest article is by Douglas Kantor, counsel to the Merchants Payments Coalition, a group of retailers lobbying for a reduction in credit card interchange fees. The major oil companies have sold almost all their gas stations because it is so tough to make money selling gasoline at retail. When crude oil prices go up, as they have recently, retailers try not to raise their prices too quickly for fear of losing customers, which pinches profits (or result in losses). Customers sometimes take out their anger on the local gas station as if it had the power to create stability in the Middle East or curb speculation in oil markets. But customers see the oil companies’ signs (which retailers contract to have on their stations to help with marketing and getting a steady supply of gasoline) and blame the station owners. It’s an extremely tough industry, and these especially tough times make it all the more remarkable that a lobbying group for the nation’s big banks and credit card companies started claiming in an advertising campaign that local gas retailers were pocketing $1 billion. They know so little about the industry that it would be laughable – if it weren’t so deceptive. During the first quarter, the gasoline retailing industry lost money on gas sales. According to the authoritative Oil Price Information Service, retailers sold gas for an average 13 cents per gallon more than they paid for it. But the industry average cost to operate and sell gas is 15 cents per gallon. Many retailers didn’t pocket anything in the first quarter. The sleight of hand by the banks’ lobbying group is stunning. They estimated how much fees banks charge to process debit cards – “swipe” fees – had fallen on gas sales after reform that took effect in October. The estimates are wrong, but that is largely beside the point. It’s what they did next that is sobering. They claimed retailers were pocketing 100% of that money. That’s right. They simply asserted retailers pocketing the money without any investigation or research. So, as many retailers were losing money, the banks claimed every single one of them was not only profiting, but padding profits. The federal Energy Information Administration has found the gas retailing industry so competitive that stations pass through 100 percent of cost reductions into consumer prices in every region of the U.S. Why would this bank lobbying group make such an incredibly false claim and then spend about $100,000 advertising it in Washington? One reason is they are desperate to hide the truth. You don’t have to look any further than your local paper. On April 5, for instance, the Wall Street Journal reported on the hard times in gasoline retailing, that many stations were losing money and how “hefty credit card processing fees” were part of that problem. Then, the National Association of Convenience Stores, the trade group for the industry that sells most gas in the country, put out a stunning report on how much swipe fees affect the price of gas and the merchants who sell it. The card fees gasoline retailers pay are staggering. They are on average the second-highest operating cost for gas retailers (higher than rent on their stores). The fees were more than $11 billion last year – 87% higher than the entire industry’s profits. That makes six years in a row that the industry paid more in card fees than it made in profits. Those fees add an average of 7 cents per gallon to the price of gasoline sold in the United States and the fees have been exploding. Between 2004 and 2011 while the price of gasoline went up 80%, card fees increased 180%. The bank and credit card lobbyists couldn’t let these facts get out. Nor the fact that credit-card rates are fixed in secret, and have risen dramatically despite advances in technology and economies of scale. In fact, the U.S. has the highest swipe fees in the industrialized world. These facts are simply too damning. So, they have now started to shout them down by trying to make local businesses the bad guys. About 90% of credit card fees are collected by just 10 huge banks. And what do those banks do? They blame an industry in which 60% of the businesses are owned by single store operators. Those operators can’t travel to Washington to shout over the bankers’ noise and they can’t write six- figure checks to advertising agencies. All they can do is hope that people will look past the banks’ shouting and sleight of hand and see the facts and the fees that the banks are so desperate to keep hidden.