By Jim Wycoff Of Kitco News Comex gold futures prices are trading near steady Tuesday morning as the market attempts to consolidate following recent strong selling pressure that drove prices to another 4.5-month low overnight. The key “outside markets”—the U.S. dollar index and crude oil prices--are also trading near steady early Tuesday. June gold last traded up $0.50 at $1,561.40 an ounce. Spot gold was last quoted up $5.30 an ounce at $1,562.25. July Comex silver last traded up $0.07 at $28.36 an ounce. The European Union debt and financial crisis is still on the front burner of the market place. Overnight developments include German and Euro zone GDP data that was stronger than expected. However, that good news was offset by Moody’s downgrading Italian banks ratings late Monday. That move was not surprising to the market place. There is also increasing talk that Greece will at some point make an exit from the European Union. The U.S. dollar index is trading near steady Tuesday morning and hit another fresh two-month high overnight. The greenback has benefited recently on fresh safe-haven demand due to the EU situation and the recent JP Morgan news. Crude oil futures prices are also trading near steady Tuesday morning after hitting a 4.5-month of $93.65 on Monday. Crude oil remains in a bearish fundamental and technical posture. In other news, famed investor Jimmy Rodgers said on CNBC Monday afternoon that the selling pressure in many commodity futures markets recently is partly due to JP Morgan liquidating at least some of its long positions in commodity futures markets, in light of its $2 billion derivatives trading loss. Latest commitment of traders data from the CFTC does corroborate major speculator long liquidation in many commodity futures markets, especially crude oil. Rodgers also said he remains bullish gold and said this latest pullback in gold prices will prove to be a value-buying opportunity. The London A.M. gold fixing was $1,559.00 versus the previous London P.M. fixing of $1,558.50. U.S. economic data due for release Tuesday includes the weekly Goldman Sachs and Johnson Redbook retail sales reports, real earnings, the consumer price index, the Empire State manufacturing survey, retail sales, Treasury international capital data, manufacturing trade, inventory and sales, and the NAHB housing market index. Technically, June gold futures bears have the solid near-term technical advantage and have gained downside momentum recently. A 10-week-old downtrend is in place on the daily chart. The gold bulls’ next upside near-term price breakout objective is to produce a close above solid technical and psychological resistance at $1,600.00. Bears' next near-term downside price objective is closing prices below technical support at the December 2011 low of $1,528.60. First resistance is seen at $1,575.00 and then at Monday’s high of $1,585.80. First support is seen at the overnight low of $1,546.80 and then at $1,528.60. July silver futures prices hit another fresh 4.5-month overnight and are in a 10-week-old downtrend on the daily bar chart. The silver bears have the solid near-term technical advantage. Silver bulls’ next upside price breakout objective is closing prices above psychological resistance at $30.00 an ounce. The next downside price breakout objective for the bears is closing prices below solid technical support at the December 2011 low of $26.50. First resistance is seen at Monday’s high of $29.00 and then at $29.50. Next support is seen at the overnight low of $27.90 and then at $27.50. Follow me on Twitter to immediately get the very latest market developments. If you are not on board, then you are not getting key analysis and perspective as fast or as often as you could! Follow me on Twitter to get my very timely intra-day and after-hours briefs on precious metals price action. The precious markets will remain very active. If you want market analysis fast, and in after-hours trading, then follow my up-to-the-second precious metals market perspective on Twitter. It's free, too. My account is @jimwyckoff.