By Jim Wyckoff Of Kitco News Comex gold futures prices are trading modestly lower Tuesday morning, pressured by bearish “outside markets” that include a firmer U.S. dollar index and weaker crude oil prices. The gold market is also seeing some consolidation on the charts after recent gains. June gold last traded down $8.10 at $1,580.60 an ounce. Spot gold was last quoted down $11.50 an ounce at $1,581.25. July Comex silver last traded down $0.111 at $28.21 an ounce. The market place received a negative surprise overnight when the Fitch credit rating agency downgraded Japan’s sovereign debt rating due to the increasing public sector debt load. That news boosted the U.S. dollar index but put modest selling pressure on many commodity markets, including the precious metals, and also limited buying interest in the U.S. stock indexes. Traders are now awaiting a European Union leaders’ summit meeting in Brussels on Wednesday. Traders and investors want to see the next steps that will be taken by officials to try to mop up the EU debt crisis—namely Greece’s present mess. Also on Wednesday the Western powers meet with Iran in Baghdad, regarding Iran’s nuclear program. The early talk is that the Baghdad meeting could see progress made, which would be further bearish news for the crude oil market. Precious metals traders and investors will continue to closely monitor U.S., EU and Chinese economic data for early clues on monetary policy actions from the central banks. The U.S. dollar index is trading firmer Tuesday morning. The index Friday hit a four-month high. The greenback has benefited recently on fresh safe-haven demand. The dollar index bulls still have some upside near-term technical momentum. Meantime, crude oil futures prices are slightly lower Tuesday morning after hitting a 6.5-month low of $91.12 a barrel on Monday. Crude oil remains in a bearish fundamental and technical posture. The London A.M. gold fixing was $1,575.75 versus the previous London P.M. fixing of $1,592.50. U.S. economic data due for release Tuesday includes the weekly Goldman Sachs and Johnson Redbook retail sales reports, existing home sales, and the Richmond Fed business survey. Technically, the gold market bulls still have a bit of upside near-term technical momentum following recent gains, but need to show fresh power very soon to keep it. June gold futures bears still have the overall near-term technical advantage at present. A 2.5-month-old downtrend is still in place on the daily bar chart. The gold bulls’ next upside price breakout objective is to produce a close above psychological resistance at $1,600.00. Bears' next near-term downside price objective is closing prices below solid technical support at last week’s low of $1,526.70. First resistance is seen at the overnight high of $1,594.40 and then at $1,600.00. First support is seen at the overnight low of $1,572.00 and then at Friday’s low of $1,567.80. July silver futures prices are still in a 2.5-month-old downtrend on the daily bar chart. The silver bears still have the overall near-term technical advantage. Bulls’ next upside price breakout objective is closing prices above solid technical resistance at last week’s high of $29.00 an ounce. The next downside price breakout objective for the bears is closing prices below solid technical support at the December low of $26.50. First resistance is seen at the overnight high of $28.55 and then at Monday’s high of $28.855. Next support is seen at the overnight low of $27.975 and then at $27.78. Follow me on Twitter to immediately get the very latest market developments. If you are not on board, then you are not getting key analysis and perspective as fast or as often as you could! Follow me on Twitter to get my very timely intra-day and after-hours briefs on precious metals price action. The precious markets will remain very active. If you want market analysis fast, and in after-hours trading, then follow my up-to-the-second precious metals market perspective on Twitter. It's free, too. My account is @jimwyckoff.