Demand side stuff is pretty clear; the Eurozone is in a perpetual state of disarray, the US dollar is seriously mispriced relative to fundamentals with nothing to fall back on beyond worn out printing presses. But beyond obvious downside ‘risks’, Asia has added a more important ‘hard landing’ threat. China is hanging on for all its worth to keep growth above 8%. The ultimate barometer for ‘demand destruction’ will come from Beijing – and although current data looks pretty poor, it would be a brave trader to bet against a Chinese surge in the middle of an ‘election’ year: especially when you consider Beijing has a piffling 25% debt of GDP and a whopping $3 trillion of foreign reserves to play with. If anyone needed reminding what makes Beijing's economy tick, Chinese energy intensity is still roughly three times that of the US: The harder the fall, the bigger the Beijing bounce. Without comparing 'apples to pears', this points us towards the supply side equation. It’s hard to find any major oil producers not sitting on a powder keg of political risk these days. Supply side detritus still litters the bulk of MENA states from 2011, all of whom remain deeply vulnerable to political turmoil and popular demands; so much so that GCC Sovereign Funds have shut up shop on outward investments. Put aside Libyan, Nigerian, and Algerian fungibility / instability issues, and you’re left with the real problem; the ‘Central Bank’ of oil, Saudi Arabia remains amongst the most vulnerable of any regional players. Riyadh is deeply concerned over political stability in is oil rich Eastern Province with underlying problems in Bahrain. State implosion in Yemen is seen as an internal issue for the al-Saud to deal with in the South (note $3.5bn hand-outs), while serious deterioration in Iraq is becoming problematic in the North. If anything, the ‘Arab Awakening’ has morphed into a ‘Salafist Séance’ sponsored by Gulf States to make sure the thin end of the wedge is at least made of monarchical wood. Internecine wars are being raged with Arab Nationalist Republics for political influence and sway; mutual recriminations and rear guard battles are being fought across the board. The chances of this ending with consistent oil supplies, let alone delivering secular liberal democracy remain slim. The same fractured picture applies for non-OPEC supplies. Russia has hit democratic (read depletion) rocks; Central Asia has the same problem. Smaller, but more explosive outages have struck the Horn of Africa; similar slippages can also be seen in peripheral MENA states such as Syria. China can’t even keep domestic production above 4mb/d. That’s before we consider the hot hydrocarbon issue of the day: Iran. Unless Tehran has undergone a ‘quiet internal revolution’, it will inevitably hang the West out to dry as far as serious economic pressures are concerned (circa. November 2012 for US Presidential elections). Couple this to the fact that the Middle East no longer enjoys credible security guarantees from Washington or Beijing; what we’re left with is a serious supply side mess. That should make grizzly bears fearful of a mass sell-off as seen in 2008 – a camp-side fire that always had more to do with short term liquidity issues on Wall Street, rather than conflicting oil fundamentals flashing up on Bloomberg screens. But as ‘compelling’ as that might sound, it’s not the main reason to remain bullish on oil. Forget short term summer demand in the Middle East; forget Chinese counter-cyclical measures. The main reason to hold Brent prices at $100/b is the moment prices plummet - the stark gap between geological costs of production vs. the geopolitical cost of survival, will show its hand across all producer states. Gulf States will be out of the money, Central Asia players will fall like flies; President Putin will feel the squeeze, while Latin America will go into resource nationalism overdrive. The lower the price goes, the more political turmoil will bite with markets (physical or virtual) tightening accordingly. In extremis, Riyadh and Russia would be happy to talk up internal unrest to lift market sentiment; better still, letting smaller oil patrons ‘go’ would help to set a floor price floor without making difficult domestic economic decisions. Market confidence to invest in expensive North American shale oil production would rapidly evaporate from fire sale flames – let alone massive CAPEX outlay required for broader international unconventional plays. Spot prices would rise ; contango would be the new norm for futures. Hence the bottom line in 2012: The further call options stretch on ICE and NYMEX, the more stable you should expect Brent benchmarks to be. Flying anything below - or significantly above a ‘$100/b world’ - in a ‘$50-150/b universe’, would be a bit like Icarus, flying far too close to the sun. The market can still burn either way, but all things considered, $100/b is about the right price to acquire a risk laden barrel of the black stuff these days…