Crude oil has plunged in the past month, with West Texas Intermediate down 13% to $89.90 and Brent Crude off 11% to $105.60. In a report Thursday titled "Sell ... sell it hard; or not?" analysts at Credit Suisse, led by Jan Stuart, asked whether it was too late to sell crude at these prices or if the downturn was only beginning. Reasons for the plunge are manifold: -- The economic mess in Europe looks to trigger recession and diminished oil demand. -- Europe's mess could spill over to the U.S., where crude production is soaring and oil stocks are higher than at any time in the past five years. -- China's demand growth has dissipated. -- A supply surge has also come from OPEC countries, which boosted output to replace Libyan volumes and has kept it high in part to balance the possibility of Iran supply disruptions. In March, OPEC produced 1.3 million bpd more than than the "call on OPEC," according to analysts at Sanford Bernstein. -- Negotiations with Iran in Baghdad raised the possibility of postponing the July 1 deadline for oil embargoes and tough sanctions, perhaps keeping Iranian oil flowing to Europe. -- American motorists are driving less: 1.9% fewer miles than a year ago, and 7% less gasoline The bulls seemed to have all been scared off, with aggressive selling of crude futures showing traders targeting low $80s on Brent. Sounds like the outlook for crude is down and out. But not so fast, say the analysts. There are still plenty of reasons to bet on oil prices staying strong, such as: -- Inventories are really only at record highs around Cushing, Okla. where there's not enough pipeline capacity to get it to market. -- China demand growth may have slowed, but consumption from other emerging markets especially in the Middle East and Asia is growing to new highs. -- They've seen no indications yet that the U.S. or other western nations are budging on Iranian sanctions. -- The costs of finding and producing the marginal barrels of oil that balance global supply and demand are going up as drillers reach into ever deeper and smaller fields. So is it still a good time to sell oil? Who knows? There's reasons to bet either way. Analysts at Sanford Bernstein earlier in May wrote that the time to start buying crude would be when the price reached the cost of marginal supply, which they figure is $92. (Although WTI is already there, Brent still has a ways to go; the average of the two benchmarks is $98 a barrel.) Presumably producers will curtail new drilling once prices sink below that point, but they are unlikely to shut in the flows of wells already drilled as long as they still have costs they need to recover. What gets me is that oil prices have stayed high just long enough that all of a sudden the world seems comfortable with $90 oil and gasoline at $3.50 a gallon. For this, we can congratulate OPEC. Just remember that two years ago crude was down at $70. And it could go right back there again.