As the U.S. financial picture edges upward, the European economy is creeping lower. Commodity prices are caught in that maze. But is the recent gyration in oil prices a function of supply and demand or is it a sudden rush in or out of commodity index funds? And how do all those dynamics figure into natural gas prices? Now that this country is winding its way out of the dark tunnel from which it has been, it will require more oil to fuel everything from cars to industry. If supplies are constant, the increased demand will cause those oil prices to rise. But such simple economics can be distorted, namely by increased “speculation” by those who funnel large sums into and out of investments. “Speculators are attracted to crude oil because it moves accordingly with the economy and with the value of the U.S. dollar,” says Valerie Wood, president of the Madison, Wis.-based consultancy Energy Solutions, in a conversation with this writer. In other words, “If they view an economic pullback, the investors will pull out of crude oil and put their money into safer investments. If they view a global economic expansion, they will put money back in.” Traditional thought has held that commodity prices all correlate with oil. In fact, the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas authored a study in 2007 that said the prices of oil and gas tend to move in tandem by a factor of 10 to 1, or $100 a barrel would mean $10 per million Btus. Now, with the advent of the shale gas boom -- unconventional natural gas -- those commodity prices have been decoupled. The price of a barrel of oil is now about $94. A week-and-half ago, it was $10 more. The drop can be attributed to political and economic uncertainty in Europe, which causes investors to flee that commodity. Natural gas is now cheap relative to oil. The most conspicuous explanation is that oil is a global commodity that is affected not just by international economics but also by geopolitical skirmishes, which can cause supplies to tighten up and prices to rise. Natural gas, by comparison, is a regional commodity that is left unscathed by such forces. Meantime, shale gas is emerging as the king of utility power markets. Newfound drilling technologies mean that abundant shale supplies are now accessible. And with regulators making things increasingly tougher on coal, shale is expected to step in and fill the void. The vast supplies of shale pushed natural gas prices to 10-year lows in April at $2 per million Btus. But now those prices are now crawling back up to about $2.50. “I think we are seeing a little bit more speculation in the natural gas market,” says Energy Solutions’ Wood. “I think prices have reached an interim low and therefore some of the speculators are willing to come back into natural gas and are being more aggressive now that the market data is turning up a bit.” Traditional economics teach us that the price of goods -- including oil and natural gas -- is tied to supply and demand. If times are good and people drive more, then gasoline prices will jump. Ditto for power companies that have to meet the demands of their commercial and industrial customers, all of which would be exacerbated by the increased global demand for either oil or natural gas. Pragmatics would then suggest that increasing production would help ease pricing issues. That, of course, is the central argument that the oil and natural gas producers are making and one that -- in many ways -- is conflicting with the views held by the Obama administration. The White House says that speculators are distorting those market fundamentals by buying up oil and creating the false perception that shortages exist. Prices then rise and the traders sell those “futures contracts” for quick profits. That’s a view generally supported by the Industrial Energy Consumers of America. Quick fixes, however, don’t exist. But putting more “cops on the beat” to ensure that markets are transparent in one answer. And so is giving producers more drilling access assuming that they have met their regulatory obligations. In fact, President Obama says that during his tenure, the country has quadrupled the number of operating rigs. The problem is that this nation uses 20 percent of the world’s oil but that it has only 2 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves. “We will need to work extra hard to protect consumers from factors that should not affect the price of a barrel of oil,” President Obama said recently in a Rose Garden speech. By that, the president means that the “irresponsible few” are “illegally manipulating” or “rigging the energy markets for their own gain.” This country is pursuing an “all-of-the-above” fuels strategy to propel future economic growth, meaning regulators will work to keep supply and demand in balance. But the government must also ensure that markets here operate free from manipulation that benefits the few at the expense of the many.