Everyone has long suspected that the IEA is little more than a subset of the US State Department; the G8 communique released over the weekend confirmed it. After several warning shots issued in Washington and London this year, the Strategic Reserve will now be used whenever the G8 deems fit to ‘ensure the market is fully and timely supplied’ over Iran. Rather a drastic departure from the original economic purpose of the reserve to fill actual or imminent supply gaps in oil markets. What’s more, it’s a massive political mistake for the Paris based agency. The short term rational is clear; the West wants to keep playing tough over Iran, and has basically used the IEA to send a serious price signal to the market to keep things in check. The fact that the G8 couldn’t agree on more pressing economic issues to stimulate growth was probably part of the subscript, but what’s particularly striking about the statement, is that it comes at a time when prices were already falling. WTI is currently trading at $91/b – sharply down from $105/b benchmarks, with prices also easing at US pumps. So beyond the initial headlines, what this actually tells us one of three things. 1) With prices dipping, the US might decide to really step up its game in Iran, applying sanctions (and more political pressure) on Tehran’s key clients in Asia to reduce Persian off-take. The IEA merely provides more policy space for Washington to turn the screw. 2) America is already worried that even as things stand, the oil market will tighten over the summer when MENA domestic consumption goes up and non-OPEC supply continues to falter. Putting a pre-emptive warning out through the IEA now, should help take the edge off things in the months to come. 3) It’s an empty threat, precisely because Washington thinks the market is going to see a major correction on the back of weakening Chinese demand. The G8 gets to play tough with Iran, safe in the knowledge the IEA will never have to follow through on its statements. The problem of course, is that any one of these three scenarios is eminently possible. Even if a ‘crunch point’ doesn’t come this summer, the Iranian nuclear question is going to be a protracted affair. Tehran’s strategy is to keep hedging its nuclear ambitions against the threat of higher oil prices, mostly through regional meddling to disrupt supplies, or more explosively, to block vital waterways should things get particularly tough. The problem here, is if you release IEA stocks now, then why not in two weeks, two months or two years? The political fundamentals on nuclear enrichment will be exactly the same for Tehran, irrespective of whoever wins the June 2013 Presidential elections. The IEA’s 700mb reserves are the wrong short tool term for a long term Iranian job. The fact that the G8 didn’t make any reference to what price band would justify release of the reserve is even worse for the IEA. Is it $100/b, $120/b, $130/b or $150/b? When the decision is made, it will purely be seen as a political call rather than a veiled economic argument the IEA has previously been able to draw on over Iraq, Katrina and most recently Libya to put more oil on the market. It’s also remarkably unclear whether it would come as a collective IEA release, or merely those who share G8 and IEA membership. If done on a bilateral basis between the US, UK, France and Japan, it would be another nail in the IEA's political coffin. The US domestic angle is however very smart from President Obama. Gasoline became one dollar too expensive for US consumers to bear in an election year back in March. Rather than highlighting the inherent contradiction to American voters between applying pressure on Iran and maintaining cheap prices at the pumps, Obama has cleverly used the G8 to normalise the strategic reserve as rational (and indeed logical) option to use whenever he wants to cool benhmark prices. That’s smart politics for Obama, but it will prove to be ruinous for the IEA. If the Saudis struggle to take the supply strain, the moment prices get too steep at US pumps, the IEA can expect to haemorrhage reserves. The long term implications for IEA market credibility is disastrous; the strategic reserve is a delicate instrument, only to be used at economically delicate times. By morphing into an explicit political instrument, its long term impact is dead in the water. Increased volatility will be the inevitable result. Not just over Iran, but a whole range of geopolitical factors where the reserve now politically comes into view. From here, the IEA can either accept its fate as an instrument of US foreign policy with Europeans turning up for the ‘Parisian plonk’, or it can go out and get some new Asian members to counterbalance Western folly. That will mean drawing up some new market rules to live by, but right now, that doesn’t look such a bad option for Parisian players (of any ilk)…