By Jim Wycoff Of Kitco News Comex gold futures prices ended the U.S. day session lower and near the daily low on a late-session downside move. The U.S. dollar index rallied, the Euro currency slumped and crude oil prices weakened in the immediate wake of a credit rating downgrade for Spain from Eagan-Jones. Gold had been enjoying modest gains ahead of the late-morning news coming from Eagan Jones. August gold last traded down $16.50 at $1,554.70 an ounce. Spot gold was last quoted down $20.10 an ounce at $1,554.00. July Comex silver last traded down $0.541 at $27.845 an ounce. The market place was tentative early Tuesday, following a long U.S. holiday weekend, and got more uneasy on the Eagan Jones credit downgrade for Spain. The Euro currency fell to a fresh nearly two-year low on the ratings downgrade news. The latest European Union debt and financial crisis developments also saw the large Spanish bank, Bankia, given significant bailout money over the weekend. Also, some polls in Greece are now showing the conservative party is ahead of the liberal party. It is believed that the conservatives would be more likely to support austerity measures in Greece. The EU situation is still very shaky for markets. There were also reports overnight that China is set to introduce fresh monetary stimulus measures to boost its economy. Such would be raw commodity market-bullish. Arguably the main data point of the week is the U.S. jobs report due out on Friday morning. Trading in many markets could be subdued ahead of that report, and then turn more active in the aftermath of the report. The U.S. dollar index is traded firmer Tuesday after a weak start, on fresh safe-haven buying in the wake of the Eagan-Jones downgrade of Spain. The dollar index hit a 21-month high last week. The dollar index bulls still have upside near-term technical momentum. Meantime, Nymex crude oil futures weakened as the day wore on Tuesday. Prices last week hit a 6.5-month low of $89.28 a barrel. Crude oil remains in a bearish overall fundamental and technical posture. The London P.M. gold fixing was $1,579.50 versus the previous London P.M. fixing of $1,574.60. Technically, August gold futures prices closed near the session low Tuesday and scored a bearish “outside day” down on the daily bar chart. Gold bears still have the solid overall near-term technical advantage. A three-month-old downtrend is in place on the daily bar chart. The gold bulls’ next upside price breakout objective is to produce a close above psychological resistance at $1,600.00. Bears' next near-term downside price objective is closing prices below solid technical support at the May low of $1,529.30. First resistance is seen at $1,560.00 and then at $1,570.00. First support is seen at today’s low of $1,548.00 and then at $1,540.00. Wyckoff's Market Rating: 3.0. July silver futures prices closed near the session low and scored a bearish “outside day” down on the daily bar chart Tuesday. Silver bears still have the solid overall near-term technical advantage. A three-month-old downtrend is in place on the daily bar chart. Bulls’ next upside price breakout objective is closing prices above solid technical resistance at $29.00 an ounce. The next downside price breakout objective for the bears is closing prices below solid technical support at the December low of $26.50. First resistance is seen at $28.00 and then at $28.50. Next support is seen at $27.50 and then at last week’s low of $27.08. Wyckoff's Market Rating: 3.0. July N.Y. copper closed up 80 points 345.60 cents Tuesday. Prices closed nearer the session low. Gains in copper were limited by the key “outside markets” turning mildly bearish as the day wore on—the U.S. dollar index firmed and crude oil prices weakened. Copper bears still have the overall near-term technical advantage. Prices are in a four-week-old downtrend on the daily bar chart. Copper bulls' next upside breakout objective is pushing and closing prices above solid technical resistance at 357.75 cents. The next downside price breakout objective for the bears is closing prices below solid technical support at the December low of 327.00 cents. First resistance is seen at 350.00 cents and then at last week’s high of 353.80 cents. First support is seen at Tuesday’s low of 344.85 cents and then at 341.75 cents. Wyckoff's Market Rating: 3.0. Follow me on Twitter! If you want daily, or nightly, up-to-the-second market analysis on gold and silver price action, then follow me on Twitter. It's free, too. My account is @jimwyckoff .