The speed with which oil price paradigms can change is truly incredible. After a soaring rally that took off toward the end of 2011, crude oil prices began to slide in March and finally collapsed in May, falling more than 17% both in the U.S. and internationally. The rout is set to continue, as weak demand and a fading risk premium meet an oversupplied market. Only a few months ago, investors were freaking out about ridiculously high oil prices. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke was forced to acknowledge pain at the pump, and pundits called for actions to keep gas prices below $4 a gallon. But, alas, prices have corrected substantially. In the U.S., benchmark WTI contracts fell drastically after having peaking above $110 per barrel in February, even clocking in a 20.6% decline in May. On Tuesday, WTI was selling for $84.22. International prices, captured by Brent contracts, slid from $128.40 on March 1 to $98.72, and could fall further. One trader told me WTI prices could fall as low as $75 while Brent could slide to the low nineties by the end of the month. These latest, and dramatic, declines in prices are the consequence of traditional supply and demand dynamics. According to a report by the Energy Intelligence Group, picked up by Business Week, global oil consumption fell to 88.5 million barrels a day as of the end of April, from 90.4 million in late December. At the same time, supplies have been rising for more than a year. OPEC noted in its May report that “higher non-OPEC supply and rising OPEC production has resulted in total supply exceeding market needs.” OPEC expects global oil demand to slow sequentially to 87.47 million barrels per day in the second quarter, then firming to 89.50 and 89.72 in the last two quarters of the year. Part of that increase is due to Japan shutting off its nuclear power reactors in the wake of the Fukushima accident. Slowing global demand led Royal Dutch Shell’s CEO to argue prices haven’t found their floor yet, and probably won’t in 2012. Peter Voser, Shell CEO, said on Tuesday he expects a “softening of prices which […] could go well into the second half of this year,” according to Reuters. “Global demand is softening, we have got recessionary elements in Europe, a small slowdown in Asia Pacific,” explained the chief executive. With the U.S. clearly losing momentum, as evidenced by the latest jobs report, and China cooling, Voser doesn’t see crude oil demand picking up until 2013. Voser also spoke of Iran, which had fueled much of the upside risk for oil early this year. “Some of the political elements of price volatility over the past few months have kind of receded,” he said. Geopolitical concerns seem to have moved to the background, as Iran has accepted to sit at the bargaining table, even if only to stall the negotiations. Lower oil prices will put pressure on big oil’s bottom line. Companies like Exxon Mobil, Chevron, and BP took advantage of record high prices early this year, despite suffering from weak refining margins. On the other hand, increased production means activity will be higher for oilfield services companies like Halliburton and Schlumberger, meaning there could be opportunity in oil-related equities. Upside risk does remain, though. Expectations are high for ECB chief Mario Draghi to announce additional easing on Wednesday, possibly including a new LTRO-liquidity injection. Analysts are also raising their probability estimates for another round of QE at the hands of Ben Bernanke and the Fed. Both of these would be, on the face of them supportive of global growth and could channel capital into commodities, including oil. Stimulus in China could also feed bullish forces. For the moment, though, oil prices are stuck in a downward trend. With Iran-risk off the table for the time being, Europe collapsing, and the U.S. and China losing steam, it seems like crude should continue to drop until demand balances with supply. But, investors should remember how just a few months ago, prices were so high they threatened to cause a global recession. Things, in oil markets, move very quickly.