Randell Cain, CFA, Principal/Portfolio Manager, Herndon Capital Management Randell Cain: The markets that we’re in right now are still focused on a geographical region that is small in terms of its importance to the overall world, but quite important in terms of, potentially, the tone or direction it might set. That’s clearly been Greece. The markets have been fixated on Greece. Decisions there can be a precedent set for other European countries that are struggling as well. The result of the domino effect associated with that is that there may be a drag on global economic growth, which has clearly become a great fear for the markets in general. Growth has become almost a dirty word, depending on the particular day it happens to be. We’ve found that there is an opportunity to benefit from the fear associated with that. Because, while economies and sovereign countries have their economic wherewithal that can be questioned and debated, many companies are not linked, from a high correlation standpoint, to the health of those countries. Many companies have growth rates that clearly eclipse those of the countries where they happen to reside. What we’re focused on in the creation of the portfolio is value creating opportunities. These are companies that are trading at significant discounts to what their fundamentals actually merit. What we’re finding is that our portfolio structure is, we think, very optimistically positioned because of the pessimism that has been generated in the market so far. We are overweight in many of the pro-cyclical growth areas. We have heavy exposure to commodities like energy and materials, as well as exposure to areas such as consumer discretionary and consumer staples. Also technology. Wally Forbes: That sounds like a fair range of opportunities! Cain: Absolutely. And the thing about it is that these sectors seem to be somewhat linked. You may think, thematically, that that’s why we are involved there. That’s really not the truth. The reason we’re there is because all of these sectors have a higher than average percentage of stocks within the sector that are what we call, again, value creating opportunities. Forbes: Well that sounds very encouraging. Why don’t you get into some specific companies you like? Cain: On the positive side, we’ll start with a sector that we feel has a great deal of value associated with it, although it has been a bit maligned because of the direction of commodity prices – the energy sector. Energy is our highest overweight sector in the portfolio; we’re overweight by about 9% versus the energy weight of the Russell 1000 Value, which is our benchmark. We have broad diversification there. We own some of the integrated companies such as Exxon Mobil (NYSE: XOM), Chevron (NYSE: CVX), ConocoPhillips (COP), as well as some of the refiners like Valero (NYSE: VLO) and HollyFrontier (NYSE: HFC). We have our drillers, with Diamond Offshore (NYSE: DO), service companies like Halliburton (NYSE: HAL) and the RPC, Inc (NYSE: RES), as well as a company that has gas and oil exposure – Apache (NYSE: APA). One of the things you’ll find is that although there seem to be some differences between the companies, all are value creating opportunities. What’s happening with energy is that people view these companies simply as proxies of the base commodity price. They ignore the fact that underlying the commodity price often are companies that have hedged forward a great deal of their production, as well as have contracts built out in terms of the rigs and the services associated with that. So the volatility of the commodity price isn’t necessarily going to result in lock-step sales and earnings movements. We’ve been able to take advantage of that, as we believe that energy companies in aggregate have been a lot more profitable and disciplined than what you would have seen at times in the past. Forbes: Well that sounds very encouraging indeed. What other sectors or stocks do you orient to? Cain: The other area that is a large overweight in our portfolio is the materials space. We own right now three securities within that part of our portfolio. The first is Freeport McMoran (NYSE: FCX), which again, similar to what we’re talking about with energy, is frequently a proxy for investors for copper. Cliffs Natural Resources (NYSE: CLF), which makes iron ore that goes to steel production. And CF Industries (NYSE: CF), which makes fertilizers. All of these companies are producing products that are clearly important to global economic growth. The BRIC countries, and you’re seeing a derivative of the BRIC countries – I’ve heard the term CIVETS, referring to Colombia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Egypt, Thailand, and South Africa – these are all areas that are experiencing growth that clearly is much greater than what we’re seeing in the developed markets. They’re building up infrastructure that, while there is going to be a boom and a bust in some cases, is on a growth trajectory that we think is likely to continue. Now, it won’t be straight-up, but I think on average you’re going to see better growth than what you’re seeing here in the developed markets. The good thing about it is we have developed market companies that can take advantage of the acceleration of that growth. One of the companies in our portfolio I think is very symptomatic of that is Yum Brands. Yum Brands (NYSE: YUM) is the umbrella company of Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and Kentucky Fried Chicken. Here within the states, the markets are very saturated for the quick-service restaurant format. But as you go to some of the developing markets, a KFC – believe it or not – may be received as warmly as a Ruth’s Chris Steakhouse. Because the price points at which they can purchase are not where ours are, so the opportunity to have a meal outside of the home is considered a fairly prestigious event. I was reading some information in Kenya where a Kentucky Fried Chicken was opening up and it was being received by the people within that area as if a 5-star restaurant was opening, because this is something unique to them. We’re talking about cultures and areas where they may be subsisting on a few hundred dollars pocketed a month, if not a year. For them, that’s a really unique event, and as they keep moving up the economic curve, some of these things that we take for granted can be very prized in those particular markets. Forbes: Very interesting. Do you have any others or should we wrap it up? You’ve covered a lot of territory! Cain: Well I do want to speak to the other side of it. I think that giving a balanced discussion is only fair. The areas where we’re underweight are the more interest-sensitive areas. In particular utilities, telecom and financials. With utilities and telecom, I believe the issue that we’re facing is that many income-oriented investors have been on the hunt for yield. If you can’t get it in the bond markets, you go and you look for the dividend yields of companies. If they offer higher rates and you believe that the company backing it is sound, why not dive in? Well the problem with that is you have a mismatch of asset class, although you are seeking one similar variable – income stream. We’ve found that the companies that are providing dividend income are, in many cases, being valued more like bonds. Savvy investors would not, more than likely, pay the whole price for the companies at the prices they’re trading at, because as well as the companies have done, the one thing that has not been consistent and has not been a catalyst for upward price moves is M&A activity. Forbes: Yes, that’s interesting. Makes a lot of sense. Cain: Absolutely. For us and our strategy, we’re focused on capital appreciation, and we really don’t see the value there right now. Forbes: That seems very sound indeed. Makes a lot of sense, because the interest right now is in interest itself, and as you say, investors are likely overweighting stocks that provide income. They’ve got some vulnerability. Cain: There’s a price you pay for a company versus the price you pay for a bond. With a bond, there’s the expectation that you will get your principal back, whereas the actual price that you get back for your stock when you sell it – that’s pretty much uncertain. Forbes: Randy, this has been very helpful. I appreciate your taking the time and sharing your thoughts. Cain: Thank you for the opportunity, Wally.