The Secretary General of OPEC, Abdalla El-Badri couldn’t have put it any better in Vienna today, ‘there are genuine demand uncertainties’. To prevent further ‘demand destruction’, OPEC has decided to keep official quotas unchanged at 30mb/d. Non-official output is of course far higher at 31.85mb/d, and when we say OPEC, what we really mean, is Saudi Arabia: Riyadh is now in a totally dominant position to call all the volume and pricing shots across the cartel. The Vienna meetings tell us as much. OPEC hawks certainly seem to get this. Instead of forcing a quotas show down to announce official cuts, they’re all hoping that Saudi Arabia will discretely rein in production back towards official quota levels when they jet out of Schwechat airport tomorrow. But the key question they all have is how far and how fast will Saudi Arabia go? Given this is the first time OPEC has failed to officially cut outpt in a decade when price corrections have exceeded 10%, ongoing Eurozone paralysis, US debt debris and Chinese stimulatory caution is likely to see the cartel having to face a sustained period of Brent trading significantly below $100/b. That’s arguably the price signal Riyadh wanted to send, particularly as Brent could drop to $85/b without the Kingdom getting nervous. No doubt bad news for the bulk of OPEC players who clearly have no influence over Saudi Arabia, but it’s even worse for Russia outside the cartel. Forget a fidgety Iran balancing its books at $117/b, of the lowest hanging political fruit from correcting oil prices, President Putin’s Russia is the plumpest petro-state of all. What’s more, it’s the one who could complicate Riyadh’s pricing purge party. Despite Mr. Putin’s newly inked laws to ‘ban’ protests, he still faces ongoing riots on the streets of Moscow. Oil receipts are absolutely crucial for Putin - not just to balance competing oligarch interests in the Kremlin, but to buy-off an increasingly restive population. Riyadh knew that once Russia slipped from the world’s largest oil producer last month, Moscow lacked the ability to perform its historic free rider role to put more oil on the market at the cartels expense. Simply put, Moscow can’t plump for volumes when prices take a turn for the worse. With 16% depletion rates setting in on key fields, 10mb/d is going to be an increasingly tall order for Russia: 11mb/d, simply impossible. This will have short term implications for Mr. Putin given two third of Russian exports and half its federal budget are drawn from hydrocarbons. His books also remain ludicrously balanced at $115-120/b; it's perhaps just as well that Russia has saved up $500bn in reserves for rainy day. Not that they’ll last long if demand side rot continues to set in. But what’s even worse for Mr. Putin is that his mature onshore fields uncannily mirror adolescent offshore plays in East Siberia, the Far East and Yamal Nenets basin of West Siberia. The overall technological and investment challenges to bring the 100bn barrels of oil equivalent to market in the Arctic are mind blowing. $500bn multi-year investments programmes are required to get things going, most of which looked a plausible call at $120/b for a barrel of Brent. With Brent prices back at double figures, they’re ‘foolhardy’ at best under the ice. Unless Saudi Arabia takes assertive action to clip global production, Russia stands little chance of bringing new production to the well-head. Rather than waiting for fundamentals (i.e. renewed Iranian bluster) blowing his way, President Putin is far more likely to lean as far as he can on Saudi Arabia to seriously cut supplies. Beyond making sure Syria continues to burn, or providing implicit support for Tehran at the UN, Putin’s initial wiggle room is rather limited. But depending on how tight things get, we can expect Moscow to start trying to cut bilateral deals with the likes of Nigeria, Venezuela, Algeria and Iran, just as it did in 2008 when prices collapsed. Angola, Ecuador and Iraq would also be on the list – extra Russian muscle could give price hawks a credible shot at what they all want: maintaining optimal volume and maximum prices at GCC (and especially Saudi) expense. Whether Riyadh plays ball remains to be seen; but having brought OPEC to heel, it needs to make sure Russia doesn’t spoil the pricing party. The lowest Brent goes, the more desperate Russia will get. Moscow will rally price hawks to its ranks, most of whom will be more than happy to use Russian influence as a counterweight to Saudi swagger. The longer Russia picks away at the cartels threads, the greater risk that OPEC’s entire fabric will perish. Cracking the whip in Vienna is easy work for Riyadh these days; it’s the Russian backlash they now need to watch out for …