With oil prices down more than 18% in May, the coming OPEC meeting will take on added importance as Saudi Arabia squares off with petro-hawks looking for higher prices and more profits. The Saudis, pumping extra oil to “stabilize” supply and demand, have effectively flooded the market, hurting budget-weak producers like Iran and Venezuela. The tension between the members promises to deliver an interesting summit in Vienna on Wednesday and Thursday. OPEC has been effectively been pumping crude well above its stipulated quota recently. According to its own reports, the world’s oil cartel was producing 32.96 million barrels per day in April (the last month for which data is reported), well above the 30 million barrels its members are supposed to be collectively producing. This overproduction is a consequence of Saudi Arabia trying to balance a market that got completely out of hand in early March, when Brent crude hit a high of $128.40 a barrel and threatened to derail the global economic recovery. The Saudis have raised the ante, taking production north of 10 million daily barrels this quarter, its highest in decades, in order to provide what Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi called “a type of stimulus, according to Reuters. Markets can expect a heated discussion over the next two days, as oil ministers from the 12-member bloc huddle in Vienna to figure out what to do going forward. Saudi Arabia’s attempts to calm markets have led to a 1.5 million barrel per day oversupply in the first three months of the year, and will probably build another 2.4 million barrels of excess stocks by the end of the second quarter, according to UBS. This oversupply will lead to a “massive stock build” in the second half of the year, thus putting pressure on weaker members’ budgets. Iran, for example, will see an EU embargo hit on July 1, probably shutting in between 0.6 and 0.8 million barrels per day of production. Indeed Iranian output is near two-year lows at 3.138 million barrels per day, according to secondary sources cited by OPEC (Iran reported 3.76 million barrels). Venezuela, another of the petro-hawks in the group, has already signaled it will make a “strong call” to other members to rein production in, bringing it back down to the 30 million daily barrel quota. Oil minister Rafael Ramirez will be putting the pressure, as the troubled South American nation goes into an election cycle pitting cancer-stricken Hugo Chavez against the fragmented Venezuelan opposition. Saudi Arabia holds the keys, though. As Matthew Hulbert previously reported, “with some budgetary tweaks and counter-cyclical cash to burn, [the Saudis and its Gulf partners] could all easily survive at $85/b making Iran et al sweat.” While the Saudis have made it clear that they’d like to see the price of Brent stabilize around $100 per barrel, letting prices drop to put political pressure on other OPEC members, or to add hurdles to those looking to boost non-OPEC production via unconventional methods (shale plays, ultra-deepwater pre-salt basins, etc) could provide the needed push to exert its power. Analysts at UBS believe Saudi Arabia and other key members will unilaterally cut between 0.5 and 1 million barrels per day, despite keeping the official quota at 30 million. This should be enough, on the face of it, to balance the market, keeping Brent around $100 per barrel. But, the coming implosion of the Eurozone, coupled with weak economic performances by China, India, and the U.S. could limit the Saudi’s ability to balance supply and demand. Prices at around $100 should help big oil in the coming quarters. Companies like Exxon Mobil, Chevron, and BP have acknowledged the impact of oil price fluctuations on their operations, particularly refining margins. At the same time, oil field service firms like Schlumberger and Halliburton will see their operations affected if production is curtailed. UBS is optimistic that the Gulf States, led by Saudi Arabia, will be able to balance the market. They understand that better fundamentals (through production cuts), coupled with the Iran risk-premium, will offset slowing global growth. Whatever happens, markets should keep an eye on the coming OPEC summit, which promises to be a good one.