The ongoing turmoil in Europe remains a significant threat to global economic growth. For evidence, look no further than oil prices, which have declined steadily this year. One risk for oil companies is that demand remains slack and prices decline further, but there are other elements at play for giants like ConocoPhillips, the third-largest U.S. producer, when deciding whether or not to expand production, like margins for specific developments instead of a debt crisis. “Growing production is a function of them whittling down their portfolio to what’s more manageable and bringing on projects that will make more returns,” says Citi analyst Faisel Khan. Since oil is a depleting resource, Kahn tells Forbes oil companies are constantly replacing older oil fields with new ones, which have higher margins. As for ConocoPhillips, Kahn estimates a 4% increase in production for the next four years. This is not to say the company doesn’t completely ignore what is happening in Europe. “ConocoPhillips stress tests their projects down to $60 per barrel and below. If oil dropped to $50 or $60, I would question these expansion projects,” Kahn says, but in the $80 range the plans make plenty of sense. One of ConocoPhillip’s expansion projects includes its Eagle Ford asset in Texas, which the company says will be producing 100,000 daily barrels by the end of this year. This development accounts for just over 6% of the company’s total daily production of 1.6 million barrels. If oil continues to drop near the company’s $60 safety threshold -- it went far below during the 2008 collapse -- the company would need to make some decisions. ConocoPhillips is currently involved in a rather rigorous share buyback program, pays a robust dividend yield of 4.8% and spends $15 billion in capital expenditures. “If oil prices drop, Conoco would curtail share buybacks and cut capital spending. The allocation of spending in Conoco is increasingly focused on domestic unconventional areas, so those developments [including Eagle Ford] would naturally need to be cut,” says Raymond James analyst Pavel Mochanov. Despite the uncertainty behind how demand for oil will change on the heels of the European crisis, oil companies are constantly looking to increase production. “In theory oil markets should be pricing in the Euro troubles and if you look at the forward curve for oil, it factors that in,” Kahn mentions. With crude oil trading in the low 80s per barrel right now, the chart below shows no signs of slowing down any time soon: This oil trend over the next two years works in Conoco’s favor – unless of course the European debt crisis takes yet another turn for the worse.