Oil prices have suffered a substantial correction over the last couple of months, with US benchmark WTI even falling more than 20% in May. With crude trading in the mid-eighties, falling prices should bring some relief to consumers, particularly at the pump, but they also provide an investing opportunity: airlines, which last year consumed 36% of their revenues in jet fuel. It’s been a wild ride for crude traders in 2011, with benchmark WTI oil futures topping $110 per barrel in February, and now tumbling all the way to $85.43, as of Wednesday’s close. While prices remain relatively high, in part due to underlying geopolitical concerns according to OPEC, the substantial drop should prove bullish for the economy and certain stocks. In particular, airline stocks. A report by S&P Capital IQ released on Wednesday suggests shares in airlines will continue to benefit as fuel prices retreat. In 2011, the U.S. airline industry consumed 16.4 billion gallons of jet fuel, costing them approximately $47 billion. Indeed, this is 36% of the industry’s 2011 revenues, “leaving little room for profitability,” S&P's Jim Corridore argued. But, as the tide has turned, so has the outlook for airlines. Oil prices could fall even further, as I explained in a piece on the crude oil market, with WTI possibly hitting $75 by the end of the month. The sustained decline would be good for the industry “so long as the drop is not due to such a severe economic downturn that passengers stop flying.” Looking at equities, S&P’s analysts have a buy rating on several U.S. airline stocks including US Airways, Delta Air, United Continental, Southwest, and Alaska Air Group. All of these are trading near the upper end of their 52-week ranges and exhibit interesting upside. But airline stocks may be too volatile for those who exhibit lower risk tolerance. S&P Capital IQ ran some screens for highly ranked mutual funds with any of their top airline picks among their largest holdings. They found Fidelity’s Select Transportation Portfolio (FSRFX), which held Delta, United Continental, and Southwest. The fund had $201 million under management as of the end of April and, in the year to date to June 1, had outperformed its peer average, delivering a total return of 3.2% compared with 1.8%. A more targeted bet on the airline sector would be Fidelity’s Select Air Transportation Fund (FSAIX). With a focus in the airline and aerospace sector, the fund holds $71.1 million under management and returned 7% over the year to June 1, compared with a 1.1% loss for its peer average. Among its top holdings are Delta and Southwest. Investors, though, should be careful when placing bets against the price of oil. While commodities are already inherently volatile, oil has the added onus that it’s one of the most widely used and traded commodities. It is highly sensitive to geopolitics and demand and supply issues. The market remains oversupplied, but seeing the Israeli-Iranian conflict flare up again would definitely takes its toll on the price of crude, and thus on airlines’ stock performance.