The sharp decline in oil prices and related equities could be coming to an end, giving rise to a strong period of outperformance once more decisive signs of a bottom are evident. The slide in crude oil prices and the sharp resulting decline in gasoline prices have not yet caused a significant turnaround in consumer sentiment. This is due in part to the fact that gas prices drop much more slowly than they rise, and based on the current futures prices, we should be paying considerably less at the pump that we are. Those who have followed and traded the crude oil market over the years know that it is always dangerous to either get complacent about crude oil’s trends, or to try to pick tops and bottoms. At last Friday’s lows, crude oil, basis the August contract, was down $33.82 from the March 1 high. Energy stocks are now close to three-year lows, and despite the rebound last Friday, crude oil is again lower in early-Monday trading. As a result, many investors are wondering if now is the time to buy oil and energy stocks? Click to Enlarge Chart Analysis: The weekly chart of the continuous crude oil futures contract shows that it has been bumping into the weekly Starc-band over the past month. The United States Oil Fund LP (USO) is a very liquid ETF that tracks the spot price of West Texas crude oil minus expenses. NEXT: An Energy Stock That’s Bucking the Downtrend Click to Enlarge The SPDR S&P Oil & Gas Exploration ETF (XOP) has had a rough year and is down 28.9% from the early-year high at $65.81. ConocoPhillips (COP) is a $66.5 billion integrated oil company whose stock currently yields 4.9%. After making a low of $50.62 in early June, COP reached a high of $56 last week. Next major resistance is in the $58-$60 area. What It Means: At the end of April, the technical studies pointed to lower oil prices. It was also evident that crude oil was not following its typical seasonal trend. If the market is in the process of starting a significant new uptrend, then this is one sector that could be a star performer. The technical evidence suggests that it is still too early to buy crude oil or the United States Oil Fund (USO), but this could easily change in the next few weeks. Though XOP may be forming a bottoming, the weak RS analysis suggests we should wait for stronger evidence that a low in place. How to Profit: Last month, I recommended buying ConocoPhillips (COP) at $50.32, a buy level which was just missed. That initial order should now be cancelled and a new order to go 50% long COP at $50.72 and 50% long at $49.28 with a stop at $46.88 (risk of approx. 6.3%) should be initiated.