In my recent interview with Forbes editor John Dobosz on Market Blaster, I promised to write about the Elliott Wave outlook for crude oil when I returned from holidays. With this post I am delivering on that promise. I should have written earlier, but the pressure of work plus all the catching up that one needs to do on returning back after a long vacation took its toll. The bottom line is that my work with Elliott Waves tells me to expect another 10% move lower in crude oil prices from current near $79 on Monday. Here are my reasons. Those of you who are familiar with my work on WaveTimes would know that some of the most profitable trades come when you spot the end of an extended fifth wave. Elliott Wave theory states that the extended fifth wave is often retraced twice, and this is what happened with crude oil. The first chart below shows how the move from $32.40 just after Christmas of 2008 to last year's high of $114.83 developed in a clear five wave pattern. The internal waves were all related to each other by Fibonacci ratios, with the fifth wave covering a distance of almost 100% of what was seen from point 0 to point 3 in the chart. This wave is incredible because it is so textbook like in its unraveling. What comes next is even more exciting. We got a swift sell off, as called for by Elliott Wave theory, and the first move down finished at $74.95. That is marked in the second chart below as point "A." Next we got a steep rally to point "B," nearly at the same height as the top of the fifth wave. This rally confirmed my bearishness and the reasons are simple. First of all the recovery to point "B" unfolded in three waves, as all corrections tend to do. Secondly, we know that the target for the correction that follows an extended fifth wave is placed at the minor wave ii of the extended fifth wave. This minor wave ii lies at $70.76 (which is about 10% down from current levels). I would also draw your attention to the 50% retracement level of the prior uptrend that is placed at $73.66. Expect some players to take profits on their shorts at that support level, but corporate treasurers at airline companies looking to hedge future fuel requirements should consider anything below $71 as good levels to get into structures that will pay off if crude prices get back to $85 in the next few quarters. Just a word of caution. This recommendation is for hedgers. If you are a trader, you need to be more sensitive about where you enter, and how much you would exposure you get at different levels. Keep in mind that crude's bounce could come from $70.51 instead of $70.76 because the former level will be 100% equal in length to the measure of wave A (wave C = wave A at that point), and as a trader you need to be aware of these additional points, for example. You can play the plunge and eventual rise in crude oil with exchange traded funds. The U.S. Oil Fund (USO), Teucrium WTI Crude Oil (CRUD), PowerShares DB Crude Oil Long ETN (OCO) and the 2x leveraged ProShares Ultra DJ-UBS Crude Oil (UCO) get you long exposure to crude. To play bear in this market, you have funds to choose from such as the PowerShares DB Crude Oil Short ETN (SZO) as well as the inverse and leveraged PowerShares DB Crude Oil Double Short ETN (DTO). Finally, if you are interested in learning about how professionals use Elliott Wave analysis, I would recommend that you consider taking a look at my book "Five Waves to Financial Freedom." Good luck!