If geopolitics play any role in oil prices, and they most certainly do, then Russia's predicted inability to twist Iranian leader Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's arm on his nation's uranium enrichment program creates upside risk for crude. In Main Street speak, oil prices are on their way up. And with it, so are gasoline prices. The Moscow talks between Iran and the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council plus Germany ended without any breakthroughs, and so the future of the diplomatic option appears to be in doubt. International recognition of Iran’s right to enrich uranium and sanctions relief were once again the key stumbling blocks in the negotiations. Ahmadinejad insisted, as always, that Iran has the sovereign right to enrich uranium for nuclear power and reminded Russian counterparts that it was a signatory to the Non Proliferation Treaty (NPT) that bans building nuclear weapons. The U.N. Security Council, led by the U.S. and a tag-along Europe, is not buying it. They've issued a series of resolutions calling for Iran to halt all enrichment because of concerns Iran with ultimately use their uranium enrichment known-how to make weapons-grade material used in nuclear bombs. Numerous press reports said that Iranian officials have been asking the U.N. to ban the European oil embargo before they open up to the Security Council's demands. In talks with Catherine Ashton, Europe's foreign policy chief and lead U.N. negotiator, the main narrative consists of hammering Iran to agree to a set of confidence-building measures, including freezing 20 percent enrichment, submitting to a more rigorous international inspection regime, and closing the heavily fortified Fordow enrichment site. Iran’s stockpile of 20 percent enriched uranium has grown to 319 pounds from 242 pounds one year ago, according to the U.N. Enriching it at 3.5-5.0 percent is in line with a civilian nuclear power program, but Iran says it was doing it at 20 percent in order to produce fuel rods for the medical research reactor at Tehran University. Iran would need to enrich uranium at 90 percent levels for an actual weapons program. However, by making the leap from enriching at 3.5 percent to 20 percent, Iran is basically only a few technical steps away from being able to enrich it to weapons-grade levels. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors found trace levels of 27 percent enriched uranium, but their report, released last month suggested that that level may have been reached by accident. The view from Russia is that Ahmadinejad is over-pressing his luck. Ashton has refused to cede any ground on recognizing Iran’s right to enrich uranium or removing sanctions before the aforementioned steps are taken. Their remains a total lack of trust between the U.S., Israel and Iran. During the Moscow talks, Ashton reportedly stated that “the choice is Iran’s. We expect Iran to decide whether it is willing to make diplomacy work, to focus on concrete confidence building steps, and to address the concerns of the international community.” There is -- as usual -- more meetings to come. A technical follow-up meeting is supposed to take place on July 3 in Turkey, but it is unclear what they'll accomplish given the fact that Ahmadinejad is dead-set against the West dictating their energy policy, as he sees it. The Moscow stalemate followed a similarly unsuccessful round of meetings between Iranian officials and representatives of the IAEA only a couple weeks ago. IAEA couldn't get access to sensitive military sites like Parchin, a site the U.S. claims is where Iran is undergoing nuclear weapons tests. Chief IAEA inspector on the matter, Herman Nackaerts, told reporters that their talks early got them nowhere. In May, the IAEA reported having basically zero-faith in the Iranian nuclear program given the government's unwillingness to let them inspect certain sites. Inspectors reported seeing hundreds of newly installed centrifuges at the Fordow enrichment site. The Israeli government has been the loudest drum-beater on Fordow. The facility is built into a mountain and cannot be easily bombed, which is why it is believed Israel and the U.S. have been the main states responsible for malware programs designed to shut down Iran's uranium enrichment facilities, including the latest program known as the flame, without missile attacks. Israel is still threatening to take action before Iran ends up relocating the bulk of its centrifuges deep into the mountain range. So far, oil markets have ignored the stalemate in Russia. Macro economic concerns have continued to pressure prices in a market where the general perception is that the world is awash in oil and there's not enough demand. Saudi Arabia's pumping more than 10 million barrels a day has more than compensated for the small loss in Iranian barrels due to the embargo, keeping price pressure on crude oil and, ultimately, on gasoline. The U.S. average gasoline price is just $3.50 a gallon. That's all about to change following the Russian meet-up with Ahmadinejad. Investment bank Barclays Capital said that the European oil embargo, starting July 1, would imply that no crude imports from Iran would come to Europe, and that alone constitutes around 700 thousand barrels per day out of the market. So far, Europe seems to have reduced imports by around 300 thousand barrels daily. Moreover, Barclays noted in a note to clients on Tuesday that Washington exempted 17 countries from their Iran oil sanctions and those exemptions go into effect next week. All 17 have reduced imports of Iranian crude significantly, however. As of now, India, Japan and South Korea, large buyers of Iranian oil, are exempt from being penalized by Washington's sanctions. Barclays said it was not expecting any major price spike in oil this summer, though at least a slightly higher price was in the cards following the failed talks in Russia. "The mounting loss of Iranian (oil) volumes in the second half of the year, providing that the macro economic outlook holds up, could provide a fair amount of upside to prices given the geopolitical uncertainty in current price levels," wrote Barclays analysts led by Helima Croft in New York.