In the midst of financial and political turmoil throughout Europe, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) met last Thursday in Vienna, Austria, to discuss the future of oil production. The verdict? Production levels will remain at 30 million barrels per day (bpd.) Some countries were contributing to the overproduction of 1.6 million bpd (making for a grand total of 31.6 million bpa), but at Thursday’s meeting, agreed to embrace the 30 million bpd ceiling. The rationale behind this decision ultimately stems from Saudi Arabia, which has been producing a staggering 9.9 million bpd in May. “The Saudis weren’t willing to cut production, especially with the Iranian sanctions slated to take hold, they may not have wanted to risk a tight market and send prices higher,” says Morningstar analyst Allen Good. Having the most excess capacity, Good tells Forbes if any OPEC country were to cut production, it would be Saudi Arabia and since they refused, OPEC had to keep levels where they were. Oppenheimer & Co. analyst Fadel Gheit points to the Arab Spring as to why Saudi Arabia doesn’t want to cut production. A drop in Saudi oil output would cause prices to rise (above $100 per barrel), threaten global economic health and lower oil demand. “Saudi Arabia is caught between a rock and a hard place. While they don’t want oil prices to rise, they need extra money to buy peace at home. They don’t want to be like Egypt, Syria or Tunisia with demonstrations,” he says. Gheit says the Saudis are essentially “renting” peace by offering money to its citizens in response to the high unemployment and effort to prevent uprisings. To add complication to this issue, Iraq is ramping up oil production after war and conflict left the country unable to produce significant levels of oil. “Iraq has the potential to double its production in the next five years, assuming they don’t shoot themselves in the foot via political corruption,” Gheit warns. It remains to be seen how Iraq could impact oil prices, but the price per barrel for crude has seen double-digit declines over the past month. “OPEC wants to maintain prices around $100 per barrel, so if prices continue to fall, they may revisit the issue,” Good says. OPEC’s next meeting will take place in December. Since topping above $110 per barrel earlier this year, West Texas Intermediate crude oil now trades for $83. Major U.S. oil companies, ExxonMobil (XOM), ConocoPhillips (COP) and Chevron (CVX) all closed lower in New York Stock Exchange trading on Monday.