By Debbie Carlson Of Kitco News http://www.kitco.com/ Editor's note: Catch the Latest Happenings with Kitco Video News! (Kitco News) - U.S. crude oil prices on Thursday fell to their lowest level since October, pressured by weak manufacturing data from China and the U.S., reminding market watchers that the global economy remains sluggish and ratcheting up fears it may slow further. West Texas Intermediate crude oil futures at the New York Mercantile Exchange at 1 p.m. EDT were down $2.03 a barrel to $79.42 for the August contract, a drop of about 2.5%. Most markets are down Thursday, and oil prices are extending the losses scored on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve did not announce new quantitative easing measures. What triggered Thursday's weakness was HSBC's initial reading for Chinese manufacturing data, which dropped to a seven-month low. Also negative was the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Index, a regional manufacturing gauge, which came in much lower than expectations. On top of that, on Wednesday, the U.S. Energy Information Administration, the statistical arm of the U.S. Department of Energy, showed a rise in crude oil supplies for the week ending June 15, when a draw was expected. Finally, the U.S. dollar is stronger Thursday and a firmer greenback is generally negative for commodities based in dollars. All of those news events conspired to weigh on prices, said Daniel Pavilonis, senior commodities broker with RJO Futures. Falling demand combined with higher supply are working in concert to pressure oil prices, he said. Crude oil prices are in a downtrend that started in March after setting this year's high of $111, and it's one that's unlikely to change in the near-term, analysts said. Hussein Allidina, executive director and the head of commodity research at Morgan Stanley, said while the macroeconomic problems are "clearly" contributing to the decline, decreasing tensions between Iran and the West and bearish fundamentals for the oil market are behind the overall descent. "While the macro (environment) has clearly contributed to the recent decline, oil prices started their descent in late March and April, well before renewed concerns about Europe and China," he said in a research note. Although talks have broken down between the West and Iran over its nuclear program, this news has not had the impact on crude oil prices as it did earlier this year. Allidina said global inventories have built substantially through April. In May, observable crude stocks in the U.S., Japan and Europe rose 17.8 million barrels above normal. Also, production from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries of 31.9 million barrels a day neared multi-year highs and U.S. production continued to surprise to the upside, he said. The weakness in commodities, particularly industrial commodities, reflects the slowing global economy. Bob Tebbutt, vice president of risk management, Peregrine Financial Group Canada, said the sharply falling oil price is a problem, but not yet a concern that industrial commodity prices are signaling that the global economy is going to get worse. Tebbutt said he is watching how copper and nickel, two building blocks of industrial demand, fare over the next several days. "Copper and nickel haven't broken their trend lines. If (Comex) copper trades below $3.25 (a pound), which isn't very far away, then that can be a negative signal," Tebbutt said. HOW LOW CAN PRICES GO? Nymex crude oil prices are down over $30 from the March highs and with the downtrend expected to continue, there are debates on how far it might fall. Barclays Capital analysts said whether or not fundamentals alone justify such a drop in price is debatable, but considering the eurozone debt problems are festering, that is dominating sentiment. They counter the argument that demand is suffering, citing that demand from January to May was "just fine," but concede that June has seen a severe deterioration in demand. "Until a permanent solution is found to the eurozone's problems, the global economy is likely to muddle through this crisis for a considerable while, and persistent bouts of risk aversion are likely to haunt the oil markets, making any sustained upside difficult," Barclays said. The EU embargo on Iranian oil exports begins on July 1 and normally taking that amount of oil off the market would be supportive to prices, but Pavilonis said it might not have that much of an impact because of higher output elsewhere. At most, Allidina said, Iranian exports are likely to be down as little as 150,000 barrels a day or as much as 575,000 b/d. In April, Iran averaged exports of 1.7 million b/d. Pavilonis said he's bearish on crude oil - and commodities in general – and expects the October low of $77.40 to be the next target, with $75 possible after that. He said it wouldn't be surprising to see crude oil prices to fall as far as $60 medium-term if the strength in the dollar continues and the market continues to remove the premium that was put in regarding tensions with Iran and its nuclear program. But, he added, lower oil prices aren't necessarily a bad thing for consumers. "Globally high oil prices are detrimental to all countries," Pavilonis said. Follow me on Twitter! If you want to keep up with metals news and features, then follow me on Twitter. It's free, too. My account is @dcarlsonkitco By Debbie Carlson of Kitco News dcarlson@kitco.com