By Jim Wyckoff Of Kitco News Comex gold futures prices ended the U.S. day session sharply lower and hit a fresh four-week low Thursday. The U.S. dollar index rallied and crude oil prices sold off during the session Thursday, to put those two key outside markets in a bearish posture for the precious metals. August gold futures also saw some fresh technical selling pressure develop as the bears have gained some fresh downside near-term technical momentum. August gold last traded down $29.90 at $1,548.50 an ounce. Spot gold was last quoted down $26.00 an ounce at $1,548.75. July Comex silver last traded down $0.847 at $26.095 an ounce. Today was the first day of the European Union’s summit meeting in Brussels. EU summit expectations are so low that many reckon any positive news coming out of the gathering could rally world stock markets. European and U.S. stock markets were weaker Thursday. There was a news report out late Thursday morning that the German finance minister said at the EU meeting Germany may be willing to share the debt load of the EU if certain conditions are met. That somewhat contradicts hawkish comments this week from German Chancellor Angela Merkel. In other news, an EU business and consumer confidence survey showed a dour mood throughout the EU region, while a German labor market report showed a weakening job sector. There were also reports Thursday that Turkey is sending military convoy to Syrian border following Syria shooting down a Turkish jet. If a military exchange between those two countries occurs, gold could see fresh safe-haven demand quickly surface. Thursday’s U.S. Supreme Court ruling affirming the constitutionality of President Obama’s health care plan had little to no reaction in the precious metals markets. The U.S. dollar index was higher Thursday morning and hit a fresh two-week high. The greenback bulls still have some upside near-term technical momentum. Meantime, Nymex crude oil futures prices were solidly lower and are back near the recent lows. Crude oil remains in a solid overall bearish fundamental and technical posture. The London P.M. gold fix is $1,558.50 versus the previous London P.M. fixing of $1,573.50. Technically, August gold futures prices closed nearer the session low Thursday and hit a fresh four-week low. Gold market bears have the overall near-term technical advantage and gained more downside momentum Thursday. Price action Thursday saw a downside breakout from a minor bearish pennant pattern on the daily bar chart. The gold bulls’ next upside price breakout objective is to produce a close above psychological resistance at $1,600.00. Bears' next near-term downside price objective is closing prices below solid technical support at the May low of $1,529.30. First resistance is seen at $1,558.60 and then at $1,565.00. First support is seen at Thursday’s low of $1,547.60 and then at the June low of $1,545.50. Wyckoff’s Market Rating: 3.5 July silver futures prices closed nearer the session low Thursday and hit a fresh 1.5-year low. Bears have the solid overall near-term technical advantage and gained still more power Thursday. Bulls’ next upside price breakout objective is closing prices above solid technical resistance at $28.00 an ounce. The next downside price breakout objective for the bears is closing prices below major psychological support at $25.00. First resistance is seen at $26.51 and then at $27.00. Next support is seen at Thursday’s low of $26.07 and then at $25.75. Wyckoff's Market Rating: 2.5. July N.Y. copper closed down 260 points 332.35 cents Thursday. Prices closed nearer the session low today. The key “outside markets” were bearish for copper as the U.S. dollar index was higher and crude oil prices were lower. Copper bears have the solid overall near-term technical advantage. Copper bulls' next upside breakout objective is pushing and closing prices above solid technical resistance at last week’s high of 347.75 cents. The next downside price breakout objective for the bears is closing prices below solid technical support at the June low of 323.80 cents. First resistance is seen at 335.00 cents and then at Thursday’s high of 336.10 cents. First support is seen at Thursday’s low of 331.20 cents and then at 330.00 cents. Wyckoff's Market Rating: 3.0. Follow me on Twitter! If you want daily, or nightly, up-to-the-second market analysis on gold and silver price action, then follow me on Twitter. It's free, too. My account is @jimwyckoff . By Jim Wyckoff, contributing to Kitco News; jwyckoff@kitco.com