In an afterhours release on Wednesday, Chevron announced it expects second quarter earnings to come in higher than in the first quarter, when the company earned $3.27 per share. Despite lower average crude oil prices, foreign exchange gains coupled with a solid performance in its downstream business, and asset sales, should push net income higher on July 27, when Chevron posts financial results for Q2. Chevron said it produced 665 million barrels of oil equivalent per day in the U.S. during the first two months of the second quarter, already beating the 651 million barrels delivered in Q1. The San Ramon, California-based company realized crude oil prices of $108.80 per barrel, up marginally from the first quarter. Average natural gas price realizations decreased substantially, though, going to $2.05 per million cubic feet, compared to $2.48 a quarter ago. The increase was fueled by a ramping up of production in the Gulf of Mexico. Internationally, Chevron produced 1.95 billion barrels of oil equivalent per day in the second quarter through May. That’s just off the 1.98 billion barrels seen a quarter ago; the company noted a shut-in of production in Brazil coupled with planned maintenance in Kazakhstan was partially offset by a production ramp-up in Nigeria. Liquids realization was $104.47 per barrel, down from $110.03, while natural gas price realization was $6.23 per million cubic feet, up from $5.88. Total oil equivalent production hit 2.6 billion daily barrels. Earlier this year, Chevron had seen downstream trouble on the back of weak refining margins. These improved in Q1, and appear to have continued their healing in the second quarter, the company announced on Wednesday. In the U.S. West Coast, they hit $21.32 per barrel through June, compared with $19.64; in the U.S. West Coast, they reached $24.89, from $20.56 in the first quarter. In Singapore, Chevron’s refining margins slid to $9.30 per barrel, from $9.78 in the previous quarter. The company expects to see international downstream earnings boosted by about $200 billion on the back of asset sales, while “favorable inventory effects are projected to benefit earnings consistent with the sharp decline in crude and product prices toward the end of the second quarter.” Oil prices collapsed along with risk assets around the early days of May, as the cooling of the global economy, coupled with worries over Europe, pushed investors to the sidelines. Big oil had a bad first quarter, with Exxon Mobil and ConocoPhillips joining Chevron in disappointing investors. Falling prices could impact production, taking a toll on oil field services companies like Schlumberger and Halliburton. Shares in Chevron closed Wednesday’s trading session up 0.9% to $104.85. The stock initially zigzagged in afterhours trade, and was down 3 cents by 6:49 PM in New York.