Shares of United Continental Holdings (UAL) have been on a bumpy but steady climb since mid-March, fueled higher along with other carriers by lower oil prices but buffeted by a sputtering economy. Unique to UAL are issues arising from the merger of Continental with United, a deal finalized in early 2011. More than a year later, many of the planes sport spiffy new paint jobs, but the company is still tackling issues when it comes to integrating the two companies. In early March United and Continental combined passenger reservation systems under one mother ship computer system. "As part of the integration, some expected and unexpected hiccups lingered into April and May, which hampered the company's ability to manage revenue," says Avondale Partners analyst Fred Lowrance. As the company reports second quarter next Thursday, July 26, investors will be eyeing the numbers to see whether integration issues have been hammered out. The consensus analyst estimate for United Continental Holdings is for earnings of $1.70 per share on sales of $10 billion. When looking at the performance of UAL's competitors, which include Delta Air Lines (DAL), American parent AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) and Southwest Airlines (LUV), Lowrance expects a cleaner quarter. "The competitors had a normal second quarter – nothing unexpected on where there numbers came in – United had the oddball quarter, ultimately on the heels of the merger." United Continental Holdings is also facing labor issues stemming from the merger. Essentially, two pools of employees exist - one from Continental and one from United - both of which have not been integrated under one contract via the new company, UAL. Though the company announced last Friday a labor deal for the 9,000 flight attendants who were from Continental before the merger. Still, these employees have not been integrated, at least from a legal contract's point of view, with the mothership. In addition to the flight attendants, the rest of the employees (pilots, technicians, gate agents) also need to work out a deal to unite. "The employees want one thing and management wants another – so it’s a matter of negotiating an economical contract," says Maxim Group analyst Ray Neidl. On this front, the United/Continental merger wasn't as seamless as when Northwest Airlines merged with Delta Air Lines in 2008, since Neidl tells Forbes this deal included pre-merger employee contracts, so the labor issues were dealt with before the acquisition. While the stress from the integration to form UAL has put brakes on the company lately, estimates of the airline's June passenger revenue per available seat mile (PRASM) includes a 5-6% increase year-over-year. United Continental Holdings was down 3.6% on Thursday at $22.02. The stock is up 16.5% year-to-date. Follow @ScottGamm on Twitter.