What is scarier than a mere 80,000 jobs added to the economy? To me at least, that would be the recent finding by the Institute for Supply Management that U.S. manufacturing declined for the first time in nearly three years. The industrial sector has been driving what little economic growth there has been and to see activity dwindle in that area has been truly frightening. One measure of hope for the industrial sector comes from the new economic outlook for the Equipment Leasing & Finance Foundation, which is projecting 8% growth next year in equipment and software investment. An initial reading of its findings suggests at best a moderate outlook for the sector (agriculture equipment investment is likely to decelerate in the next three to six months; computers and software equipment investments to slow down and medical equipment likely to be relatively flat on a year-year basis.) The Wall Street Journal’s Development blog, though, seized upon the dropping oil prices story line in the report as good news. Given my growing fears of a double-dip, I am more than happy to drink the Journal’s Kool-Aid agree with its interpretation of the study. Who Wins, Who Loses Of course, one industry’s good fortune is another’s bane. Caterpillar and Deere, if ELFA’s report is on target, will continue to benefit from this current economic cycle. Companies like ConocoPhillips, not so much—unless that is, they take advantage of the equipment purchasing trend, as well as others, via a little diversification. Maybe that is what ConocoPhillips had in mind with the latest investment it made via its joint venture with GE and NRG Energy. Energy Technology--a corporate collaboration among the trio--has invested in On-Ramp Wireless, a developer of wireless networks for energy automation, as part of the company’s Series C capital raise. The San Diego-based company will use the funds to scale its Ultra-Link Processing Smart Grid and Digital Oil Field applications. In addition, Energy Technology said when announcing the investment yesterday, there is significant potential to apply the technology in other infrastructure segments. For example, On-Ramp, which has also been awarded a grant by Department of Energy to develop a wireless network to monitor underground circuits to improve grid reliability, has deployed its technology with San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG&E) and Southern California Edison. I am sure there must be other utilities out there that could use next-gen investment in their infrastructure. So--the answer to the question, “can dropping oil prices save the economy?” is, hopefully, partly (I don’t think a solution to this mess which has been a decade or more in the making and has complicating global factors will come down to one factor) and with a little value-add ingenuity to boot.