'We don't have bloated egos,' says Nqwababa. 'Otherwise it could never work.' The board of South African petrochemicals giant Sasol was surprised in 2015 when David Constable, CEO of Sasol Ltd. said he was quitting the company in 2016. They set out scoping for Constable's replacement, only to find that his job was too big for just one man. So in an unusual move, Sasol swapped one CEO for two. “Neither of us applied for the joint-CEO position,” says Stephen Cornell. Bongani Nqwababa nods and says that when the chairman of Sasol explained the plan to him, “He asked if I was ok with that. I said, it depends who it is.” Co-CEOs wasn't part of the job description. During the interview process the men had taken a barrage of psychometric tests, which determined scientifically that they could mesh. “What Steve didn’t have, I had, and vice versa,” says Nqwababa. He and Cornell had only been at Sasol (NYSE:SSL, $31.7) for a couple years, but they’d seen a lot, Cornell most recently with BP and Total, Nqwababa at Anglo American, Eskom and Shell. They were the kind of “outsider-insider” leaders that Sasol wanted. Becoming co-CEOs was like an arranged marriage. For a couple years they had seen each other about five times per year. Thrown together, they now share lunch every day. In person they appear very comfortable with each other; it's the rare executive who doesn't mind the other guy finishing his sentences. It wouldn’t work for everyone. But it does for them. They do have some things in common, says Cornell, 61. “We’re very similar in terms of how we work. We’re both the type that like to get things done versus enjoying the stature of the job. We are very hands on and like to co-create with a team. Very team oriented. We like to bring the team in and co-create with them. And push them in a direction, then let them go.” Nqwababa, 51, and Cornell, 61, usually work out of their headquarters in the tony Sandton district of Johannesburg. But they recently came to the United States and stopped by Houston in order to check on progress of the Lake Charles Chemicals Project, in coastal west Louisiana. At a cost expected to come in at $11.1 billion the LCCP complex is an investment equal to half of Sasol’s current market capitalization. It will feature a 1.5 million ton-per-year ethane cracker and six chemicals units that will make high-end specialty chemicals like cosmetics-grade oils and ingredients for soaps and shampoos. The project had its origin during the Constable years, which he marked by slashing entire divisions at Sasol, including layoffs of 5,000. The Louisiana project was attractive because the shale gas revolution gave Sasol visibility on a decades-long supply of cheap, reliable natural gas. Still, even with the company's chemicals expertise, Sasol had a history of shaky performance on managing big projects. They took on a big risk going it alone with no joint venture partners. Last year they announced a 25% overall project cost increase. That, plus the impact of low oil prices, has eroded the economics of LCCP. At current oil prices Sasol expects it to generate an 8% return on investment. Higher prices for oil (and ethane alternative naptha) would be highly accretive to earnings. Sasol earned $1.5 billion last year on roughly $12 billion in revenue. Nqwababa and Cornell (who grew up in Memphis and headed up big refinery projects for BP) will be back in Lake Charles in late 2018 for the LCCP startup. And then the company can shift from investment mode to harvest mode. They expect LCCP to triple Sasol’s U.S. dollar-denominated business, helping to diversify the company away from the shaky rand. All things equal, by 2022 Sasol expects Lake Charles to undergird a 20% jump in total corporate earnings. Higher oil prices would boost earnings, especially if gas stays cheap. To Sasol’s detriment the fiscal situation in South Africa is dire enough that Sasol credit (Baa3) is likely to soon be rated higher than South African sovereign bonds, which Moody’s recently put on review for downgrade. The coal-to-gas-to-liquids technology at the core of Sasol was patented by German chemists Franz Fischer and Hans Tropsch in 1925, later helped fuel the Nazi war effort, and in the early 1950s was acquired by South African Synthetic Oil Limited, which in 1952 started building its first plant and in 1955 sold its first coal-derived gasoline in South Africa, and kept doing so right through the Apartheid years and on to today. Leveraging their expertise, in Qatar, Sasol in 2008 built the Oryx project, which applies Fischer-Tropsch techniques to natural gas. The output includes everything from jet fuel to the finest cosmetics-grade oils, and benefits from guaranteed cheap feedstock gas. Sasol considered building one of those gas-to-liquids plants in Louisiana as well, but passed — the Gulf Coast is already flooded with butane and propane out of the Eagle Ford and Permian basin. Over the past 10 years oil and gas explorers have discovered near limitless supplies of fossil fuels. There’s no money to be made in just being a commodity provider. Which is why Sasol focused its Lake Charles investment on specialty chemicals. It’s a trend across integrated energy companies — they are shifting capital spending away from the “upstream” business of drilling new oilfields in preference for investments further “downstream” — where molecule by molecule, chemical engineers squeeze out as much value as possible. “The strategy moved from volume focused to being value focused,” says Nqwababa. Sasol has paired back its efforts to explore for oil and gas. This year they sold at a loss some fields in Canada acquired for $1 billion in 2010, and they’re no longer scouting new shale plays with Chesapeake Energy. Their upstream focus now is on developing low-hanging fruit, like in the coastal oilfields off Gabon. “Last time we got into oil there were targets of how many barrels are we going to produce,” says Nqwababa. “Barrels don’t pay the bills. Cash does.” In 2014 Sasol needed oil prices of $70 per barrel to generate cashflow. Now that cash breakeven is down to $40 per bbl. And they’re still selling off underperforming assets. The co-CEOs recognize the complexities of being a company focused on fossil fuels in a world where de-carbonization is the rage. A decade ago Sasol decided to no longer invest in coal-to-liquids projects in China because of pressure from anti-coal groups (though they do still license the technology). And after massive natural gas discoveries in Mozambique, Sasol is investing in gas infrastructure, to supply the market and introduce new feedstock to their South African chemicals operations in Sasolburg and Secunda. The increasingly likelihood of the imposition of some sort of carbon tax in South Africa could place a financial stranglehold on Sasol. Another good reason to invest in the U.S. (or even spin off the chemicals business entirely). Sasol’s co-CEOs have no doubt that even if demand wanes for petroleum and coal, that the market for plastics will continue to soar in the coming decades. “Specialty chemicals will move with China and India,” says Cornell. “People moving into the middle class want products. It’s not easy to say you can just switch to an alternative. There’s not a lot of alternatives.” Having two CEOs is risky and can breed paranoia and an undercurrent of hostility, according to Stanford business school researcher Lindred Greer. That's what happened with Sandy Weill and John Reed when they tried it at Citibank in the 1990s. Last year Whole Foods Markets abandoned its duel-CEO setup and returned the reins to founder John Mackey, in what turned out to be the denouement for the company, now owned by Amazon. The scheme has worked better at Oracle for Safra Catz and Mark Hurd, who became co-CEOs in 2014; though founder and chairman Larry Ellison still looms large at the software giant. Henry Kravis and George Roberts have run private equity giant KKR together since the 1970s. There’s been plenty of raised eyebrows and questions over Cornell and Nqwababa’s bi-racial, co-CEO arrangement. (They aren’t Johannesberg's first inter-racial CEO duo. At Standard Bank, Ben Kruger (white) shared the CEO role with Sim Tshabalala (black). There’s no sense that one of the is “more equal” than the other. They insist this isn’t just a patronizing attempt at pretending to integrate the top echelon of South African industry. In person they really do share a personal connection. To top it off, their wives get along, and their daughters are in the same class. “People argue without facts. They didn’t ask the process of what gets you here. They just saw a South African who is black and an American — who happens to be white. And they didn’t see it deeper than that,” says Nqwababa. So let’s get deep. What does it take to make the co-CEO thing work? “If you’ll allow me to start at the front of the matter, it is that our decision-making processes are very clear," says Nqwababa. "Sasol comes first, the team comes second, individuals come third. Second issue is that we are data based decision making. It’s not about who shouts the loudest. Third, we have managable egos. We don’t have bloated egos. Otherwise it can never ever work.” “Where the company is, who we as individuals are, it fits for us,” says Cornell. “It fits for where Sasol is right now.” More reading: 