Bargains are hard to come by these days on Wall Street. But there’s one in the oil transportation industry, Tsakos Navigation Ltd — a large oil tanker owner, and operator of a fleet of 62 double-hull vessels — with solid financials and an experienced management team. The company’s stock is trading 76% below book value, the largest discount in the marine transportation industry — see table. Meanwhile, Tsakos pays 4.83% dividend, not that bad in a low interest rate environment. Price to Book Value For Marine Transportation Companies* *As of 12/1/2017 Why such a big discount from the book value? The whole industry has been out of favor among investors in recent years, for a couple of reasons. One of them has been low oil prices, following the re-surge in U.S. oil production. Another has been the excess capacity in a marine transportation industry that has been depressing freight rates. Then there’s the high level of debt, which raised concerns about the ability of maritime transportation companies to maintain their hefty dividend payouts. That isn’t the case for Tsakos Navigation. While its debt is among the largest in the industry, so is its cash position, which can provide a cushion in case interest rates rise, and the company finds it hard to refinance that debt. Then there’s the company’s strategic partnership with Statoil for building new crude oil tankers, which will provide a steady cash flow. Tsakos Navigation Financials *As of 12/1/2017 Meanwhile, industry fundamentals have been changing recently. Oil prices are heading north again, gaining close to 40% from last July’s low, while freight transportation rates have doubled over the same period. That’s a trend Athens-based maritime transportation analyst Theo Matsopoulos expects to continue. “China is re-inflating its bubble, while America is cutting taxes,” he says. “That’s good for global growth and the marine transportation industry.” And for Tsakos Navigation, of course, which can reward long-term investors nicely. Disclosure: I own shares of TNP