Not everyone in the market would agree, but for many in the analyst community the oil market is basically witnessing an effective OPEC put. The oil producers’ cartel, led by Saudi Arabia, in concert with 10 non-OPEC producers, led by Russia, have – at least on paper – kept their 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd) of production cuts firmly on the table for most of 2018. At their last meeting in Vienna, Austria on 30 November, there were some voices of dissent and the Russians, whose backing underpins the non-OPEC end of the bargain to the tune of 500,000 bpd, openly questioned the logic behind extending a deal that was still in place until March 2018. However, in the end all parties went along with the deal to roll over the ongoing cuts to the end of next year for one reason alone – their relative comfort with a Brent price just above $60 per barrel and a West Texas Intermediate price within striking distance of the mark, and well above $50; the dreaded level which brings with it a sense of unease. For me, that is a metaphorical put option being taken by the producers involved who start making noises about production levels the moment they see the oil price slide toward $50. By its very definition, in the wider commodities and securities world, a put option is an option contract giving the owner the right, but not the obligation, to sell a specified amount of an underlying asset class at a specified price within a specified time. While OPEC and its partners do not openly comment on what price level they are comfortable with, over 2018 – their specified time – they would ideally want their specified selling price, using Brent as a benchmark, to be at least $50 per barrel, and ideally $60. Under normal circumstances, it would be easy to adopt a bullish stance after an OPEC cut or a cut extension as we saw on 30 November. However, the oil market is undergoing a once-in-a-generation change both in terms of supply as well as demand fundamentals. The presence of U.S. shale players, who lead the pack of non-OPEC producers with capacitynot aparty to the cartel's output cap, means its bid to put a price floor at $60 remains under medium-term if not short-term threat. As I have written many times before on Forbes, each time the price strengthens, there is a near immediate response in the U.S. rig counts. The past few weeks aptly illustrate this. Both in the run up to the OPEC meeting on 30 November, as well as in the days after, U.S. rig counts have continued to rise, serving as a corrective mechanism on the price, if not an all out drag we saw in summer of 2014. This means that if OPEC can’t viably defend $60, then defending $50 becomes imperative. Given this backdrop where does that leave the average investor in relation to the oil futures market? In my humble opinion be short-term long playing the ‘crude’ news-flow, and long-term short barring a massive geopolitical flare-up! But before getting into the tug of war between bearish versus bullish sentiment and taking a market position, look at macro fundamentals. Crude oil demand is neither collapsing nor is it firing up. And while there is clear divergence between OPEC and the International Energy Agency’s demand growth forecasts for 2018, as the Qatari Oil Minister Mohammed Saleh El-Sada recently admitted to me, the conservative to optimistic 1.2–1.5 million bpd prediction range most surveys put it in, is what I’d classify as decent. India is importing more crude and is now the world's third-largest crude importer. Demand from China, while not firing up, is likely to be above 2017’s draw; US reliance on global crude market will continue to drop, and South Korea and Japan are likely to import less. That means 2018 will remain a buyers’ market albeit one the sellers can live with. So every time the oil price is seen rising clear of the $60-level in 2018, US producers would respond, as they are doing at the moment. But should their response drive prices considerably below $60, we would almost certainly see Saudi Arabia, Russia or another OPEC member talk of “balancing” the market and protecting “producers’ interests”. When such verbal interventions happen, you’ll find that speculative fund managers tend to pile in and buy oil futures contracts sending the price higher, in the hope that the rally will get more legs. It is a questionable tactic but certainly price supportive intraday or over a couple of sessions, and one you too can take short-term advantage of. In the midst of this, don’t forget that – as things stand – Brent remains in backwardation, i.e. the contract’s current to near-term price is higher than the price levels of future contracts. Meanwhile, global inventories have indeed fallen from their 2017 peak and the 5-year moving average is also converging with the actual level of inventories; a major aim of OPEC cuts. Yet, the falls do not equate to the physical market becoming balanced in the longer-term, or OPEC would not have pushed to extend the cuts at it last meeting. Finally, as I have previously noted, the OPEC and non-OPEC cuts plan doesn’t seem to have an exit strategy. At some point the cuts have to end, and that would inevitably drag the oil price lower. But for 2018, the way I see it, $50 is by and large OPEC’s floor, or the exercise price to bring in the put option analogy. So that gives reason to go long over the short-term, and trade the news over a 5-day cycle week in week out, but ultimately, given what else is afoot in the ‘crude’ world, remain net-short over a longer time frame. There’s little to suggest oil would substantially overshoot $60 or by the same token slump too far below $50 in 2018 – and that’s the range to take positions in. The above commentary is meant to stimulate discussion based on the author’s opinion and analysis. It is not solicitation, recommendation or investment advice to trade oil and gas futures, options or products. Oil and gas markets can be highly volatile and opinions in the sector may change instantaneously and without notice. 