While President Trump and some Republicans have been fighting back in the supposed ‘war on coal’, a new battle front has been formed – the ‘war on wind (and solar)’. This battle is playing out the in the current tax bill before Congress. The tax bills approved by the House and Senate vary in some significant ways, including how to treat tax credits and subsidies for wind and solar. While the Senate plan does not touch the credits, the proposed House plan reduces both the solar Investment Tax Credit (ITC) and wind Production Tax Credits (PTC) rebates and incentive structures. It is unclear where reconciliation will end up, but AWEA estimates the House version would result in a loss of 60 thousand jobs and $50 billion in investment. For reference, using EIA data, we estimate that the total paid out for the ITC and PTC in tax year 2016 was about $6 billion, or 0.16% of the federal budget. Even if that lost energy investment were shifted to the coal sector, the net balance would be fewer jobs. The solar and wind tax credits are different, but rather straight forward. For solar, system owners could write off 30% of the installed costs of the system on their taxes. For wind, owners received $23 for every megawatt-hour of energy produced for the first 10 years of operation. One might not like subsidies, but most all forms of energy production have some kind of subsidy, so it is somewhat hypocritical to claim that solar and wind need to compete ‘on their own’. These credits were conceived to jumpstart a nascent renewable energy sector for a set amount of time. The credits have been extended multiple times, albeit for smaller amounts each time. The latest ITC/PTC extensions and graduated phase-out were part of a bipartisan grand bargain in 2015 that also opened up US crude oil exports. Reneging on parts of this bargain that were scheduled to expire on their own is simply a double-cross. The tax credits are already on a path to elimination starting in 2019/2020. The bargain that extended them is how congress is supposed to work, producing pro-competitive legislation that let markets figure out the details. Republicans got to open up crude exports in exchange for the eventual phase-out of the ITC/PTC. Democrats got an extension and certainty of wind/solar rebates/incentives. Although it is a not so secret secret that both sides wanted oil exports and ITC/PTC extensions, the grand bargain did provide good political cover. Also, given that most wind and solar development is in rural Republican districts it seems odd that Republicans are trying to kill them and the jobs they bring with them. There is a lot of uncertainty in the energy space right now. Low and no-growth electricity markets have made it hard for energy companies to plan for the future. Stopping the ITC/PTC early adds more anti-business uncertainty to these markets. It is no wonder investment is stalling in new generation deployment. This only adds to the chilling effect from the unresolved solar panel import issue in front of the international trade commission. Neither side of the 2015 bargain got everything they ‘wanted’, but everyone got something they could live with. Even if you don’t like the ITC/PTC, you should be opposed to this attempt to gut them because a deal is a deal. Reneging on past bipartisan deals further diminishes trust and cooperation in Congress and the uncertainty that these proposals introduce is anti-jobs and anti-business. 