As you may have seen recently, technology is changing the way we grow, sell, deliver and eat food. Not to be outdone, tech is also affecting how beverages are being created, tracked and even served. Here, we are going to look at some of the interesting new technologies that affect the drinks many of us start and occasionally and responsibility end our days with: coffee, wine and water. Diving Deep into a Cup o’ Joe Given that begin our days with 500 billion cups of coffee per year it seems only fitting to start here. A bit of background: coffee is harvested in mostly developing countries during the dry season when the coffee cherries are bright red, shiny, and firm. They are picked by hand, separated by handheld mechanical tools and dried before making the long trek to industrialized nations where the vast majority of coffee is consumed. It’s clear that harvesting coffee has remained relatively unchanged over the years. But getting that soul-pleasing goodness into your gullet in the morning has been touched by technology in a number of ways. Tap “brew” right before you tap “snooze.” Using the Wi-Fi enabled Mr. Coffee® Smart Optimal Brew™ 10-Cup Programmable Coffee Maker your phone does the laborious job of getting out of bed, drudging to the kitchen and firing up your morning java. Are you more of a home brewing, coffee-connoisseur? Sometimes it’s all about the proper measurements of water and coffee grounds. Check out VOOM, which bills itself as “the first coffee scale that displays a detailed brewing profile of your beloved coffee directly on the built-in screen.” Cold is hot again. Waiting in line to get your chilled coffee can be a thing of the past. Enter, the Hyperchiller. As it claims, “it's like adding 30 ice cubes to your beverage — with no dilution.” Oh, and by the way, this also adds some cool tech to chilling your evening drinks as well. A Coffee from the Barista, Hold the Barista Technology is even helping us get our beverages more quickly and easily when we are out and about. At Cafe X, inside the Metreon, a four-story retail and entertainment complex in San Francisco, customers don’t even have to speak to a barista to place their order. Rather, they can pre-order it on their phone and then watch as a one-armed robot promptly swings into action whipping up even the most complicated java-based concoctions. Pairing Well with Technology Even the simple wine pour is getting a tech-upgrade. According to its manufacturers site, “the Coravin Wine Preservation Opener uses patented technology to pour wine without removing the cork from the bottle.” Now you can taste the wine, be that a sip or a glass, and the integrity of the wine won’t change when you return to the bottle at a later time. Bars are benefiting from a splash of technology. Beverage Metrics is helping bars reduce costs and increase control by providing wireless sensors and RFID tags to bottles and pour spouts. With estimates that either through deliberate or inadvertent over pouring, bars are losing up to 22%, this type of technology is especially valuable to owners. They will be able to see a more detailed and exacting account of where the liquid is actually ending up. Drink Tracking Apps? Yes, of Course. Drinking too fast? Too little? Here is some beverage technology that can help you be a healthier you. Coffee, Wine and Water. In some ways, they are the simplest of beverages and yet it’s clear that even the most common drinks around your house are receiving unprecedented attention from the tech sector. Capital One does not provide, endorse, or guarantee any third-party product, service, information or recommendation listed above. The third parties listed are solely responsible for their products and services, and all trademarks listed are the property of their respective owners. 