French President Emmanuel Macron is now hosting a climate summit with dozens of world leaders while the largest money managers are putting increasing pressure on some of the biggest polluters. The collective efforts are designed to curb emissions and to increase the transparency into corporate climate strategies. It is all coming two years after the signing of the Paris climate agreement — the global pact to keep temperature increases in check. To this end, national leaders from across the globe are in meetings in Paris to further those aims, which they hope will result in a solid plan to transfer $100 billion by 2020 to developing nations to provide them the technologies to cut their CO2 emissions. At the same time, institutional investors that manage trillions in assets are working to persuade companies to pursue socially responsible investments — specifically those that would reduce heat-trapping emissions. In the past, those investors have been effective in getting businesses to listen and to act, albeit the level of commitment has varied depending on corporate missions. “Moving 100 of the world’s largest corporate greenhouse gas emitters to align their business plans with the goals of the Paris Agreement will have considerable ripple effects,” Anne Simpson, Investment Director of Sustainability at the world’s largest institutional investor CalPERS, said. “Our collaborative engagements with the largest emitters will spur actions across all sectors as companies work to avoid being vulnerable to climate risk and left behind.” Altogether, 225 investors with $26 trillion in assets under management have combined their financial might under the banner of Climate Action 100+. Their message: Companies that focus on the so-called triple bottom line — economics, environment and social — are outperforming other broader indices and they are also demonstrating that they are living their missions and ingraining their brands among their customers. Among the companies that they hope to persuade are China Petroleum & Chemical Co., Gazprom and Exxon Mobil Corp., which just yesterday said that it will give its shareholders a sharper look inside of its strategy to fight climate change. Calpers said via a telephone conference that companies are being asked to cut their CO2 emissions by 80% by 2050. The broader context here, of course, is the Trump administration’s decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement, which climate activists have used as a clarion call to get local and national leaders to step up, as well as businesses that want to serve the needs of their constituencies. As such, French President Macron is underscoring his effort to get the private and public sectors to combine to help fund carbon-friendly energy projects across the globe. “I don’t see any way for this to go backwards,” Maureen Kline of Pirelli, an Italian tire company, told a conference sponsored by Environmental Leader. “If all the regulations were rolled back, they would still be asking us to become more sustainable.” Now sustainability efforts are going down the supply chain and throughout the investor community, as well as through the big banks like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley that also finance such efforts. The business case is strong too. It is improving financial performance, driving a competitive advantage, fostering innovation, building customer loyalty, improving risk management and attracting employees, Kline adds, noting that a preponderance of the studies performed show a positive correlation between sustainability efforts and shareholder value. Consider that PriceWaterHouseCoopers says that 71 percent of businesses say they are planning for sustainable development goals. Meantime, the Global Reporting Initiative says that 82 percent of the 250 largest companies are doing sustainability reporting. There is $22.89 trillion under management in the global sustainable investment market, adds the Global Sustainable Investment Association. What now? CO2 levels have been falling in the European Union, largely a reflection of less coal generation and more renewable energy use. By 2020, the continent aims to achieve a 20% cut in greenhouse gas emissions (from 1990 levels,) a 20% increase in renewables and a 20% improvement in energy efficiency. In March, the continent is expected to discuss increasing its CO2 targets to 40% by 2030. The corporate world, meanwhile, is getting pressured by institutional investors and customers alike. That’s why many companies say they are dedicated to the climate cause regardless of who occupies the White House. Research by Lucid and Urjanet indicates that 73% of businesses expect their commitment to carbon reductions and sustainability to be the same while 21% plan to increase their involvement. Only 7.7% say that they will decrease their commitment. Addressing climate change is a product of popular expression, low-carbon options and global political leadership, which generally sees the issue as having profound environmental and economic implications. Corporations, too, are trying to appeal to both a climate conscious public and to the money managers who can help their enterprises grow. Deterrents exist. But when political prowess combines with financial might, that’s an even bigger force that could make a difference.