 Here's a short Christmas list of books to buy or read for the intellectually engaged citizen, non-fiction as is right for this column, just released and ultra-timely. Three books. They have thematic confluences: each opens the eyes with a sounding alarm about imminent threats to our stability, yours and mine. The good news is they're riproaring reads. David Patrikarakos's “War In 140 Characters” chronicles the transformation of conflict via social media into an entirely new kind of struggle at home and abroad. It's a thrilling headlong tide of real-life stories with genuinely profound moments of perception for our time. Luke Harding's “Collusion” has made its mark already as number 1 on the New York Times bestseller list. It too is full of spine-tingling real-life stories in the Le Carre vein about the links between Russia and Donald Trump. And the third is Doug Schoen's latest, a slender volume entitled “Putin On The March: The Russian President's Unchecked Global Advance”. Keep in mind that Schoen manages to talk as an avowed Democrat to Fox News audiences, one of the priceless voices who can reach the unreachable core believers of either side. Heaven knows we should heed his writings. The three authors represent different generations of the same fight to help the West survive a most precarious time, Schoen heading up the veteran age group of commentators who draw context from living memory of the Cold War with Harding in the middle and Patrikarakos bringing up a muster of younger stalwarts. Give thanks for them this season, especially the younger set, a highly accomplished constellation of thinkers and probers with Peter Pomerantsev, Michael Weiss (now full-time at CNN) and Oliver Bullough all at the hub of the trench-lines. David Patrikarakos book “War In 140 Characters” tells the story first of the Palestinian girl who became a twitter sensation, a sort of universalized victim figure, when the Israelis bombarded Gaza. It makes the point that social media has upended the hierarchical structure that determines whose voice and what information gets amplified to the world. Next it tells the story of the Israeli Defense Forces' struggle to tell their side, which they failed to do until they hired young women in their mid-twenties savvy to real-time online sharing flows. The author is busy illustrating one of his central themes: nowadays, alas, right and wrong, truth and falsehood matter much less than 'narrative'. Whoever tells the most compelling narrative at the right time in the way most suited to the novel medium, wins. While we adjust to this disruptive new reality, led by an emergent race of tech-savvy operators, dubbed Homo Digitalis by the author, we must expect enormous volatility in human affairs: “History shows us that with each new major evolution in information technology comes a period of instability, often leading to conflict. The invention of the printing press,,,brought subsequent wars of religion to Europe...The 1920s saw the mass expansion of radio which a mere decade later gave the demagogues of the 1930s platforms on which to flourish. November 2016 saw the election of Donald Trump, arguably the most demagogic US Presidential candidate in history, who employed twitter as one of his primary campaign tools”. As Patrikarakos tells his stories the book rises to a thrilling pitch, gains intensity and momentum and urgency. He chooses irresistible protagonists. Some of it in terrain that I've covered as a journalist – such as Ukraine and ISIS - and even for a jaded palate like mine the pace is exhilarating. We learn about the self-motivating civilian woman in Ukraine who via Facebook single-handedly mounted a campaign to supply the sadly ill-equipped Ukrainian military with desperately needed uniforms, boots, sleeping bags and much else. Thereby also boosting their morale immeasurably. We learn about the liberal young Russian guy who found himself working for a troll-farm in St.Petersburg spreading disinformation, confusion and cynicism across continents. Ultimately he resigned, remorseful and deeply depressed. But not before he'd contributed a little more chaos to a reeling world. As the author says, “The more doubt you can sow in people's minds about all information, the more you will weaken their propensity to recognize the truth when they see or hear it.” Regular readers of my column will recognize this theme as one dear to my heart. I have often pointed out that populist demagogues of our time succeed by floating multiple (sometimes contradictory) conspiracy theories and so effectively frying the public's brain that it grows fatalistic and prefers a strong hand on the tiller. David Patrikarakos is a kind of seer and guide to the perplexities engendered by the brave new world we inhabit of communication on steroids. “War In 140 Characters” offers us the first substantial steps of clarity in the digital maelstorm. Note well the full title of Luke Harding's book “Collusion: Secret Meetings, Dirty Money, And How Russia Helped Donald Trump Win”. The astute reader will demur – the subtitle can all be true without automatically the title being true. Part of the ever-louder counter-polemic in favor of Trump has focused on this break in the logical chain. Russians helped him but did Trump collude? The President's defenders also like to dwell on the credibility of the Steele dossier so you should know that Steele looms large in Harding's book as a credible source featuring extensive revelations. Another fresh attack on Steele centers on the DNC's (ie Hillary's) financing of the dossier via the civilian intelligence bureau, Fusion GPS. Fusion took Hillary's money, ergo Steele's dossier is biased nonsense. Meanwhile, Fusion also worked to scuttle the anti-Kremlin Magnitsky Bill for a Russian client. Ergo Steele's investigations must all be dismissed as fake news, possibly as itself a Kremlin provocation to spread chaos in the US. These counter-strokes have surfaced recently, after Harding's book went to press – yet the book remains utterly convincing, wins hands down. First, a little history about the author of “Collusion”, Guardian journalist and former Moscow bureau chief Luke Harding. He got pretty much bounced out of Moscow by the Putin crew for being too critical of the great man's activities. For my money, Harding is the leading investigative writer on the Putin beat. Harding's 2011 book “Russia: Mafia State” gave us the first great shaft of light onto Kremlin dirty tricks inside Russia and abroad, not least because Harding found himself subjected to them relentlessly as bureau chief. Until 'Mafia State' came out no ordinary civilian believed that Moscow could or did undertake such things systematically, not after the Cold War, and you were paranoid if you suspected that they did. In short, Harding himself is a seminal and highly believable protagonist in the necessary revival of informed Kremlinology, a bona fide authority having now written six books on the broad topic of the Russian threat. I would even say unimpeachable. He upholds Steele's credibility – like the rest of the trans-Atlantic intelligence community. He shows that Steele was filing scores of reports on the Kremlin's forward interference even before Fusion GPS or the dossier came to life. The dossier merely added to the continuum. What Harding does is demonstrate irrefutably that there's a case to answer, an overwhelming case, regarding Trump's very anomalous connections to Russia – going back to the Cold War era. As the information builds and the names and links and lying denials keep coming the sheer diagrammatic clustering of suspicious coincidences tells its own incontrovertible tale. Manafort, Kushner, Page, Tillerson, Flynn, Michael Cohen, Wilbur Ross, Felix Sater, Rick Gates, Flynn jr, George Papadopoulos, to name a few of the rogue's gallery. Count them. Say them again. Sure a Presidential candidate is allowed to make overtures to the enemy for future diplomacy's sake, even discreet overtures, even through intermediaries. But why would they all deny making them? Why quite that many? There may be others. We only know of those and only from leaks. Harding quotes the former head of MI6 as saying that the amount of Trump contacts to the Kremlin was “utterly astonishing”. The book bristles with astonishing stuff. Here's an email extract that Sater sent to Cohen in 2015: “I will get Putin on the program and we will get Donald elected... Buddy our boy can become President of the USA and we can engineer it. I will get Putin's team to buy in on this. I will manage this process.” At various points in the book, Harding could stop, fold his hands and rest his case. The reader is convinced long before the flow of information halts. Ultimately, there's nowhere for the skeptical mind to escape. Give the book to anyone who harbors doubts. If they still persist, they are beyond the reach of fact-based truth. Douglas E. Schoen's “Putin On The March” can be read in a single long sitting. I have long admired Schoen's foresight on longterm geo-strategic matters, an area of policy that the US virtually abandoned after the Cold War ended. We even wrote a book together some years ago. It's worth noting that Schoen wears a number of professional hats: author, TV Pundit, pollster, political consultant. In the latter capacity he deals with politicians and statesmen at the highest levels. He could very easily have compromised his views for the kind of corrupting Russian money that sloshes around liberally in the West, today's equivalent of the Danegeld. Yet he has never budged. This is a book in which the arguments and evidence click quietly, relentlessly into place page after page with a symmetry that, rather than depressing the reader, inspires a grim awakening and determination. We learn of Moscow's serpentine backstairs support for North Korea. We learn how the Kremlin has started supplying the Taliban with weapons to use against allied soldiers. In the Balkans, we discover that Russia has quietly built a network of nationalist anti-West political parties which have already started making gains. In Europe, Putin has maneuvered to dominate the fuel supply with intricate pipeline politics. He is quietly doing the same elsewhere. We thought we knew everything about the Kremlin's moves in the Middle East to displace US influence. Think again. The book lays out how Putin's Syria strategy has oil as its primary motivator, offering the Iraqi Kurds an outlet for their oil fields thus undermining Baghdad. And much else: Russia has asserted its might in the Middle Eastern oil market for some time. In December 2016, Rosneft bought 30 percent of Egypt's offshore Zohr gas field. In February 2017, the same month the firm announced its Libyan and Kurdish deals, it also announced it would begin drilling...in southern Iraq. The following month, Rosneft bought Egyptian oil for the first time and signed a deal to supply (the country) with liquefied natural gas. Rosneft is also considering making a bid for offshore rights in Lebanon. Everywhere, the challenge builds and overflows the perimeter. Cyberwar. Hi-tech weapons. Nuclear weapons. Support of rogue states. Internal interference with US and allies. Schoen's book checks them off. And finally arrives at a programmatic set of responses, a heartening and optimistic outro to a perfectly-sized and paced argument. But the warning remains loud and clear. 