Have you ever heard of Saudi American Holdings? What about Madrigal Pharmaceuticals? No, I thought not. This weekend I searched the universe of some 3,300 U.S. stocks with a market value of $500 million or more, looking for the five biggest gainers year-to-date, and the five largest losers. Some of the names may surprise you. Who or what is Saudi American Holdings? That’s a mystery. Based in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, it has a market value is just over $1 billion, and is up 650% this year. According to most financial databases, the company does shipping in Saudi Arabia and aircraft maintenance and repairs in the U.S. But one database says it develops software for the dental industry. When I attempted last weekend to find the company’s filings on the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) web site, there were none after 2007. On Monday, I placed repeated calls to the number listed for Saudi American in directory assistance. The phone was busy all day. Avoid. Madrigal Pharmaceuticals is a biotech company in Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, working on drugs for hepatitis and cardiovascular diseases. The stock has climbed this year from $14.90 to $82.47 a share, on good (but still preliminary) clinical trial results. Avoid. Sangamo Therapeutics, which hails from Richmond, California, is a biotech firm expected to generate a little more than $35 million in revenue this year and a little over $56 million in 2018. It is still losing money, however, and the stock sells for 38 times revenue, so I’m unenthusiastic. Avoid. Straight Path Communications jumped in April and May as a bidding war broke out between Verizon and AT&T T +0% Based in Berkeley, California, Dynavax Technologies is working on medications to stimulate the body’s immune system. It has partnerships with major drug companies but is expected to glean only $16 million in revenue this year. The stock sells for 98 times revenue, and there are no earnings yet. Avoid. The most battered stock--down 84% year-to-date--is Frontier Communications FTR +0% Competing with CVS and Walgreens is no picnic. On top of that, drugstores are losing some business to Internet vendors, and may lose more. Rite Aid RAD +0% Down 69% is Coherus Biosciences, a biotech company in Redwood City, California, which attempts to develop biosimilars for existing medicines. At today’s reduced price of about $9, Coherus wins buy ratings from eight of nine analysts. I don’t usually side with the majority but this time I do. Buy. A land driller based in Houston, Texas, Nabors Industries Ltd. is down 67% this year, but its fortunes may be turning upward. The past two quarters have shown an increase in revenue year-over-year. Oil prices are rising, and the energy industry is climbing off the mat. It’s scary, but buy. It’s sad to see an icon fall, but J.C. Penney has. The stock, which topped $80 a decade ago, now trades for $3.09. After five years of losses, Penney managed a small profit in fiscal 2017, but the red ink has flowed again in the past three quarters. Avoid. Track Record This is the sixth column I’ve written about top gainers and losers at year end. The average 12-month gain on my recommendations has been 58.9%. There is one word for that kind of return: lucky. Buying the previous year’s worst losers would have given you a 41.9% return. If you had bought the previous year’s winners you would have reaped a 21.9% gain. For comparison, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index averaged 16.0% for the same six periods of about 12 months each. My two buy recommendations from last year, First Solar FSLR-US +0% Bear in mind that my column recommendations are theoretical and don’t reflect actual trades, trading costs or taxes. Their results shouldn’t be confused with the performance of portfolios I manage for clients. And past performance doesn’t predict future results. Disclosure: I own First Solar for one of my clients. With that exception, I have no positions in the stocks discussed in today’s column, personally or for clients. ---- John Dorfman is chairman of Dorfman Value Investments LLC in Newton Upper Falls, Massachusetts, and a syndicated columnist. His firm or clients may own or trade securities discussed in this column. He can be reached at jdorfman@dorfmanvalue.com. 