The Saudi government has signalled it will ease off on its austerity programme in 2018, following a year in which the economy contracted by 0.5%. In its budget for the coming year, issued on Tuesday, the country’s finance ministry said it would increase spending to SR978bn ($260.8bn) next year, up 5.6% compared to 2017, while revenues would rise by an estimated 12.6% to SR783bn. That leaves a budget deficit of SR195bn, equivalent to around 7.2% of GDP and the fourth consecutive year of deficits. At the same time the government has abandoned its policy of eliminating the budget deficit by 2019, pushing the target date back to 2023 instead. Observers broadly welcomed the budget, which has been billed as the largest in the state’s history, if only because previous budgets have tended to severely under-estimate actual spending levels. Dubai-based Emirates NBD said “the strategy is commendable” while London-based Capital Economics described it as “a bit more generous than we had expected”. However, there are still questions about whether the government’s reform and diversification programme is really on track, or whether it will have to return to ‘austerity economics’ in the years ahead. The boost in revenues next year will mostly come from non-oil sources. Saudi Arabia is introducing a value-added tax (VAT) of 5% on a range of goods from 1 January and the government also plans to increase electricity prices and levies on expat workers and their dependents. In 2018 it will also be able to count on a full year of excise duty, which was introduced on tobacco and sugary drinks in June 2017. The rise in expenditure includes the new SR30bn Citizen’s Account, an allowance paid to less well-off households to reduce the pain of ongoing subsidy cuts, as well as a SR72bn private sector stimulus package announced five days before the budget. Overall, spending is weighted towards the usual areas. Wages and salaries for public sector employees form the biggest single item, accounting for 45% of total expenditure. By sector, military and security services account for SR311bn of the total, followed by education and training (SR192bn) and healthcare and social development (SR147bn). Oil price gamble The budget revenues appears to be based on an average oil price of around $50-60 a barrel according to economists, which is below the current price of $63.81 and potentially in line with the $57.26 average predicted for next year by the US Energy Information Administration. That doesn’t leave much room for manoeuvre for the government if oil prices start to decline again and is a far more bullish stance than that of some other nearby countries. For example Qatar – which is locked in a bitter diplomatic standoff with Saudi Arabia – has based its 2018 budget on an average oil price of $45 a barrel. However, there could be other revenue windfalls for Riyadh from privatisations such as that of oil giant Saudi Aramco, assuming it goes ahead next year. Several billion dollars could also flow into the state coffers from the settlements made by those detained in a crackdown on the country’s political and business elite which began in early November and which has been labelled an anti-corruption drive. At the same time, the budget doesn’t capture all the spending that state-owned bodies are expected to make. In addition to direct government expenditure, the state-owned Public Investment Fund will spend SR83bn and the National Development Fund is expected to spend SR50bn inside the kingdom in the coming year. According to Emirates NBD, if these sums are included in the overall tally it would push spending up to SR1.1 trillion, which would mean a deficit of around 12% of GDP. Growth warnings The main implication of the budget figures is that the government has eased off on austerity, with the decision to push back the point at which it aims to balance its books particularly significant. This is in fact in line with advice previously offered by the IMF, which in May 2017 said “a more gradual fiscal consolidation to achieve budget balance a few years later would reduce the effects on growth in the near-term”. The loosening of fiscal policy has led some economists to revise their growth forecasts for the country upwards. Capital Economics said it now expected Saudi GDP to expand by 1.5% next year, compared to a prediction of 0.8% before the budget was released. However, that’s still far below the government’s own prediction of 2.7%. Alongside possible swings in oil prices, there are a few other factors which could make life harder in the year ahead. One of these unknowns is the extent to which the increase in taxes might dampen consumer spending and undermine economic activity more generally. Political uncertainty caused by the rapid pace of refoms being pushed by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman could also make business investors more cautious. Time is not on the government’s side. It’s financial resources, while still substantial, are being rapidly depleted by the large budget deficits of recent years. Riyadh has been covering the shortfall by both using up its savings and increasing its borrowing. This has led to the net foreign assets held by the central bank, the Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority, falling from SR2.76 trillion in August 2014 to SR1.8 trillion by October this year and public debt rising to SR438bn. The government will need to continue borrowing in the year ahead. Riyadh-based Jadwa Investment says it expects debt issuance of SR117bn in 2018. That would take overall public debt to SR555bn, or 19% of GDP. The government has set itself a limit of a debt-to-GDP ratio of 25%, which means it still has some room for manoeuvre. The government badly needs its diversification programme to show signs of real progress quickly. While the economy as a whole contracted by 0.5% last year, the non-oil sector grew by 1.5%. Faster growth – particularly in the private sector – will be needed if the country is to produce the number of jobs required in the years to come. Whether the stimulus provided by the this week's budget is enough to do that remains to be seen, but the relatively low growth projections of some observers suggest more will be needed. “There will little room for the government to provide significant support to the economy over the next five years,” warns Capital Economics. “Unless oil prices rise significantly – which we think is unlikely – further fiscal consolidation measures will still be needed if the authorities want to hit their [balanced budget] target.”