You have probably seen advertisements for newsletters touting investment strategies premised on buying the “dogs of the dow.” Well, in 2017, there were few canine stocks among the 30 stocks of the DJIA. Led by Boeing’s stunning 89% gain for the year the DJIA posted an 25.1% increase in 2017. So, the question facing investors is: should we hold on to our winners or search for value among the few losers? I’ll go out on a limb and say that the market will not post another 25% gain in 2018 and Boeing is not going to nearly double again. I’m a value and income investor by nature, so I am digging among the market’s rejects for ideas for my asset management clients’ portfolios. The list of Dow 30 stocks that declined in 2017 is a small one; GE, ExxonMobil, IBM and Verizon. To that list I would add the DJIA stocks that only managed low-to-mid single-digit increases in 2017: Disney, Chevron and Goldman Sachs. I have written about most of the aforementioned stocks in recent Forbes columns, but here are a few quick bullet points: Chevron and ExxonMobil should absolutely be included in your portfolio as we enter 2018. Oil’s move through $60/barrel at its U.S. benchmark is, in my opinion, sustainable and reflective of an even balance of supply and demand in the global oil markets. Daily protests against the repressive Khamenei regime in Iran--not widely covered by the U.S. mainstream media, for some reason--could be the catalyst for oil to break out to the upside, as well. If there is true unrest in Iran and it blossoms in the Sunni-majority areas in the south of the country, Iran’s ability to transport crude to oil export centers on the Strait of Hormuz would be hampered. That would be an oil bull’s dream. A rise in oil prices would also be very helpful for GE, given its controlling stake in publicly-listed GE Baker Hughes. The GE saga is a sad one, and I’ve covered it in many Forbes columns. If oil prices skyrocket on political turmoil in Iran, that would likely be a catalyst to end GE shares’ seemingly endless decline and send the stock back into the $20s. Disney's move to buy studio assets from Fox is a positive one as I mentioned in this tribes column, and content is indeed king. Goldman is certainly exposed to a potential pullback in global equity markets. AT&T and Verizon have also made forays into content, but those two stocks are representative of the theory behind Dogs of the Dow. That theory advocates buying the DJIA stocks with the highest yields, not the ones that have posted the worst share price performances. In a go-go year like 2017 where non-dividend payers like Facebook, Amazon, Netflix Google and Tesla drove the performances of the Nasdaq, high yields and lagging performance can be conflated. Income investing is always out of favor until it isn't. Just as income stocks outperformed during the tech bust of 2000-2001, they would outperform if there is any pullback in the Nasdaq. With the positive vibes of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act starting to fade, I believe investors will once again seek out real returns in the form of dividends. So, look for the tortoise to make up some ground on the hare in 2018. Make sure you are exposed to dividend payers with improving fundamentals, and energy looks particularly attractive here.