This year has not been the best for oil and gas stocks. The SPDR S&P Oil & Gas Exploration & Production ETF, or exchange-traded fund, is down around 10% over the last 12 months while the VanEck Vectors Oil Services ETF has slid more dramatically by about 22%. Those performances compare with an almost a 20% jump for the broader S&P 500 Index over the same period. As a result, some analysts' oil and gas stock picks at this time last year aren't looking too hot. Energy-centric investment bank Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. had wins with Chevron (up 10.4%), Royal Dutch Shell (up 30%) and Concho Resources (up 10.2%) as well as its refining picks Andeavor (up 30.3%), Valero Energy (up 38%) and Marathon Petroleum (up 33.6%). But a lot of its other calls are in the losing column, including Pioneer Natural Resources (down 6.7%), Cimarex Energy (down 10.8%) and Antero Resources (down 22%) as well as oilfield services stocks Halliburton (down 9.6%) and Forum Energy Technologies (down 34%). But TPH's analysts are optimistic about next year. They said in a report Dec. 28 that the global supply/demand balance continues to show evidence of tightening, including a weekly crude oil draw of 6 million barrels reported by the American Petroleum Institute Dec. 27 – the fourth strong drawdown in as many weeks. "The question around timing of the fundamental shift translating to equity performance remains," they said. "The investor message to the sector has been loud and clear – give us more discipline, better returns and managed growth." While some “wait and see” may be in order as oil and gas companies roll out next year's plans over the next several weeks, the analysts said there are some larger cap names at the top of their pick list. Those include large North American exploration and production companies such as Anadarko Petroleum, Concho Resources, Devon Energy, EOG Resources and Suncor Energy. TPH's oilfield services picks are Halliburton and Schlumberger; its midstream choices include Enterprise Products Partners and Targa Resources; and its refining favorite is Andeavor. Simmons & Co. International, meanwhile, also had a winning call with Chevron last year along with Suncor Energy and ConocoPhillips, whose stocks were up 13.6% and 10%, respectively. But its choice of Marathon Oil was down around 5%. Simmons' core favorites this year include EOG and Diamondback Energy among exploration and production companies; BP and Suncor among international oil companies/majors; Halliburton among large cap service companies; C&J Energy Services and Patterson-UTI Energy among smaller service providers; and Andeavor among refiners.