Well, I called a move through $60 in West Texas Intermediate crude by year-end, and, thankfully, the markets fulfilled my prediction with three days to spare. U.S. oil futures briefly traded at $60.01 in afternoon trading Tuesday, so that psychological hurdle was cleared, however briefly. In the Forbes column in which I initially made that $60 call--published on September 28th--I advised investors to buy a basket of small oil exploration and production (E&P) stocks. I included Denbury Resources, Evolution Petroleum, Gastar Exploration, Ring Energy and Sanchez Energy in my E&P stock basket. That was a lucrative proposition--the table below shows three-month performance data--and I am glad I bought positions for my clients in the group, as well. Remember, though, if you just look for a quote on "OIL" on CNBC or Bloomberg TV, what you will see is a quote for the front-month futures contract, currently the contract for February 2018 delivery, which expires January 22nd. A much more telling indicator of the clearing price for crude is the December 2018 contract, which closed Tuesday's trading at $57.71. While that's a 25-month high for that contract, when the contract first started trading in December 2010 it traded consistently in the mid-$90 range for its first few months before gapping up through $100/barrel in mid-2011. So, oil prices are still far below where the markets where predicting they would be six years ago. The breadth and depth of the September 2014 - March 2016 oil recession is amazing. That's what is coloring sentiment on oil now and why, in my opinion, oil did not blow through $60/barrel with a bullet toward $70 earlier in 2017. The fact that forward oil futures are being priced lower than the current-month contract--a situation known as backwardation--is both the cause and the effect of oil's somewhat restrained rally in 2017 versus the ebullience in other asset classes such as mega-cap tech stocks. The old rule of thumb is that E&P managements will aggressively hedge by selling future months' contracts in a backwardated curve--thus locking in profits on the oil being sold currently--but I do not think that is happening this time. Based on my conversations with E&P CFOs and my observations of the futures markets, I do not see a rush among producers to lock in $57/barrel oil for next Christmas. I think the producers--remember they are structurally short the commodity they produce--are going to wait for the oil markets to regain their normal shape--contango--before locking in prices for next winter. WTI futures can be physically settled (although most are not) at the storage facilities in Cushing, Oklahoma, and since oil has a physical storage cost, future months' contracts should be worth more than current months'. The question is: how do we get to contango? Will it be a short, sharp shock in the near-months contracts, or a jump in the value of future months' contracts? I believe the latter is more likely than the former, and that is why I am not yet taking profits on the shares of small oil E&Ps. I believe the oil markets are in balance--a sentiment echoed by Iraq's oil minister in recent days--and that global inventories are under control. Thus, producers will require higher prices to meet the ever-increasing demand for crude, and basic economics will bring us higher oil prices in 2018. So, while it feels great to have told Forbes readers to buy Denbury Resources at $1.35 per share in September now that DNR is trading above $2.00 per share, it is important to remember that Denbury shares were threatening the $4.00 mark at this time last year. Also, one doesn't have to draw a very wide chart to see that before the oil crash, Denbury shares were trading in the high-teens in the summer of 2014. So, DNR's up 100% in three months, but down 85% in three-and-a-half years. That indicates to me that these small E&P stocks have plenty of room to run, and, given my bullish outlook on crude, I am certainly not selling them at these levels. I have no reason to believe that shares of smaller oil producers will be any less volatile in 2018 than 2017, but the sheer magnitude of their three-year fall from grace gives me reason to believe the trend will continue to be upward for E&P stocks in 2018. 