Western Canada’s tourism hub of Vancouver, British Columbia, is quite used to cruise ships docking at its scenic harbour. However, a customary walk across town on Burrard Street connecting the City’s Waterfront, facing Vancouver Harbour, to Beach Avenue, facing the English Bay, would reveal waterways on either side full of rather unglamorous vessels of a different kind – oil tankers – heading in and out of the Burrard Inlet to Port Moody. What’s more, these provincial waterways are poised to play a pivotal role in 2018 with Canadian crude currently selling at an all time low. Global proxy benchmark Brent is well above $60 per barrel and the West Texas Intermediate above $55, but the local benchmark – Western Canadian Select (WCS) – is yet again languishing around $30. In fact, the spread between Alberta’s heavy crude and the same grade at the U.S. hub of Cushing, Oklahoma has widened dramatically from around $5-6 per barrel in the first half of November to around $20 over the last few days, as assessments by data aggregators S&P Global Platts and Argus indicate, and for good reason. Much of the decline is down to extensive apportionment on the Keystone pipeline out of Alberta this month, and the recent outage on the key crude artery which has boosted local crude inventories significantly. One estimate by research and monitoring outfit Genscape puts western Canadian inventories at a high of 31.82 million barrels; the highest level since it began monitoring the region’s crude storage levels in 2010. By that argument, some in Canada’s oil-rich province of Alberta could be forgiven for believing the marginal oil price recovery of 2017, which saw Brent touch two-year highs, never happened! Yet, what is troubling for Canadian crude exporters, is fast morphing into an arbitrage opportunity mainly for Asian buyers, if anecdotal evidence in Vancouver is anything to go by. In simple terms, arbitrage is the practice of taking advantage of a price difference between two or more markets for a particular commodity, with the profit being the difference between the market prices. In this case, the arbitrage opportunity exists by buying low in Canada and selling high in parts of Asia. Arbitrage anecdotes were lent support after it emerged that South Korean refiner GS Caltex sent a tanker to pick up what would in its case be a rare cargo of heavy Canadian crude from Vancouver this month. According to Reuters, some 300,000 barrels of Cold Lake heavy sour crude were loaded on to the Panamax Selecao on 13 December with the tanker then heading to an “undisclosed location”. The consignment is unlikely to be the last. The Cold Lake heavy sour, which gets its name from an extraction prospect 185 miles northeast of Edmonton, Albetra, is quite close to “pricier Middle Eastern heavy crudes”, contacts in Calgary, the province’s oil capital, declare with a degree of confidence. Furthermore, industry insiders say other Asian refiners might want to go down GS Caltex’s path, including its Korean rival Hyundai Oilbank. While the company declined comment, if that were to materialize alongside the very visible interest from China, as opposed to what is quite frankly a small trial consignment by GS Caltex, the crude world could see incremental cargo dispatches from Canada to South Korea, for the first time since 1995, and by extension to wider East Asia. Of course, the big question is – will the arbitrage play, and the existing Canadian cost advantage last, and if so for how long? The answer lies with how long the current glut will last, and that may take quite a while, if RBC Capital Markets’ projections are to be believed. The bank forecasts oil sands output to rise by 315,000 barrels per day (bpd) in 2018 and 180,000 bpd in 2019 to 3.2 million bpd. In all probability, exports will materially exceed pipeline capacity for much of the first quarter of 2018, at the very least. Hence, RBC Capital Markets’ analysts have downgraded their WCS discount by $3.50 in both 2018 and 2019 to $15.50 and $17.50 per barrel respectively. However, physical trading sources in Calgary, Vancouver and Houston, Texas, U.S. suggest many are pricing in a discount of $20 per barrel for the moment. Limited avenues for moving crude in the face of robust production, offer opportunities to physical traders to strike a hard bargain. Canadian output is currently where it is because investments made in 2014 prior to the oil price slump, are coming onstream. Regional export pipelines to the U.S. are already running close to their limit and proposed new projects such as TransCanada’s Keystone XL and Kinder Morgan Canada’s Trans Mountain expansion have been beset by regulatory and environmental hurdles, says David Wech, Managing Director of JBC Energy. “And limitations in ship sizes the port of Vancouver can accept mean the route offers only very limited protection to Albertan crude prices. Price differentials will see producers look to rail operators for additional outlets. The huge current incentive to get crude out of the region means some additional rail export capacity may be found, including by allowing crude oil to outcompete other railed commodity exports.” Yet, the noises coming out of Canadian rail companies do not sound positive. Canadian National has put out statements saying it would not be altering its commodities transportation mix with the company currently allocating resources to grain transport. Rival Canadian Pacific is still hurting from its “very painful divorce” from exporters after a previous fall in oil prices, and its boss Keith Creel is in no mood to budge from rumored demands for 12-month term contracts, rather than provide capacity for spot shipping to a troubled industry. Amid the kerfuffle, it is also worth remembering that moving crude from Alberta to the U.S. Gulf Coast typically costs $7.50-$8.50 per barrel by pipeline versus $11-12 per barrel by rail. While outages, such as the one with Keystone are temporary, and pipeline capacity may improve – there are no short-term solutions on the horizon. By that token, for those in Asia or elsewhere, who can get their hands on Canadian crude consignments out of Vancouver, the first six months of 2018 could be an intriguing arbitrage play. In which case, Vancouverites can expect the Burrard Inlet to get a whole lot busier and a tad unsightly for some.