President Trump continues to dominate both the global and domestic energy pages, although in ways that give his doubters pause. Certainly, there is something to be said about reviewing the country’s regulatory regime and whether it could be better configured. But critics say that his primary initiative is to unwind the progress made by his predecessor and to belittle the science that underscores climate change. Is this in the national interest? Examples abound and include everything from the withdrawal from the Paris climate agreement and the weakening of the Clean Power Plan to working to ease the building of coal-fired power plants and watering down pollution rules. He also signed an executive order to try and kickstart the controversial Keystone XL Pipeline, which some in both parties believe is a better option that sending that fuel via rail cars to the Lower 48. While the president may be trying to undermine environmental interests, the good news is that the cities and states are taking up the cause and they are backed by American enterprise. Will their actions outlasts those of Trump and will they be more consequential? 8. The Trump Organization will likely pay millions of dollars to clean up a polluted site once overseen by the president’s son, Donald Jr. The company had wanted to limit its liabilities at an industrial site in North Charleston, South Carolina by getting taxpayers to foot the bill. The site, known as Titan Atlas Manufacturing, began in 2010 and it ultimately failed in 2012. The January 2017 story sets the tone for the president’s attitude toward business and environment — that the land is expendable if there is money to be made and that any environmental costs are to either to shunted aside or punted to other parties. This decision in South Carolina, for example, occurred just before the president and the new Congress chose to rollback the so-called “Stream Protection Rule” that was enacted in the waning days of the Obama administration. When the Department of Interior issued that rule, it said that its intent had been to protect 6,000 miles of streams and 52,000 acres of American forest by creating a larger buffer zone between coal mines and waterways. The goal, it had maintained, had been to protect drinking water in accordance with today’s technologies. 7. President Trump signs an executive order in January 2017 to fire up the Keystone XL Pipeline. The project has languished since 2008. In 2015, the State Department concluded that only 50 permanent jobs would be created by the line, although it did say that as many 3,900 construction jobs would be needed on a temporary basis. When the price of oil fell below $50 a barrel, however, some questioned the economics of the project given that its cost is now projected to be greater than the original $7 billion estimate. Now it is at $60 a barrel. The crude oil would be derived from oil sands, which are said to release about 17% more greenhouse gases than the typical form of oil development. The pipeline would send about 830,000 barrels a day from Canada to ports along the Gulf Coast of the United States. Just after Trump's executive order, TransCanada resubmitted its application to build the line. Without more pipeline, the company said it could have to curtail production. 6. In July, the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) fined ExxonMobil $2 million for violating “Ukraine-related” sanctions on Russia. OFAC said Exxon’s actions in 2014 constituted a “reckless disregard” for U.S. sanctions. The sanctions in question effectively barred U.S. entities from financial dealings with Igor Sechin, the CEO of Russian state-owned oil company Rosneft. Exxon and Rosneft agreed to a joint venture in the Black Sea and in the Kara Sea in Siberia. After the Treasury Department’s actions against Exxon, Trump met Russian president Vladimir Putin at the G20 summit. Following the summit, Trump tweeted that he and Putin did not discuss U.S. sanctions on Russia. Skeptics, however, are wondering if the topic of sanctions came up and what Russia and Putin might hold over Trump’s head. This, of course, is a focal point for the special counsel's investigation. 5. EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt's do-over of science and the agency he heads. On Halloween, he announced that scientists who receive research grants from the EPA will not be able to sit on the agency’s boards. That includes hundreds of independent scientists who are employed by universities but it does not preclude scientists employed by private enterprise and specifically those by oil and gas companies. Pruitt said it would reduce conflicts of interests while critics said it is nothing less than an attempt to purge boards of independent scientists and leave them with those paid by corporate interests. 4. President Trump’s decision in June to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement, making the United States the only nation in the world to not be a participant. The agreements calls on the global community to keep temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit from a pre-industrial levels. The president’s premise is faulty -- that the creation of jobs and the building of an economy are at odds with a healthy environment. Indeed, the U.S. economy has blossomed over several decades while it has also made huge environmental strides. Wind and solar jobs, for example, are providing hundreds of thousands of jobs. Moreover, many of the leading companies creating those technologies are American that are now trying to crack foreign markets. 3. President Trump’s attempt to resurrect the coal industry most notably by ditching the Clean Power Plan that would require 32% cuts in CO2 emissions by 2030. In October, EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt signed a notice of proposed rulemaking to roll back the plan. But market forces are proving to be a stronger force. Altogether, the US Energy Information Administration anticipates 90,000 megawatts of coal-fired generation to be closed in the United States between 2014 and 2040. To that end, In 2016, CO2 emissions were 18 percent less than they were in 2005, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said. The EIA also reported that last year CO2 releases dropped 5 percent for electric generators—a reflection of those environmental policies.mostly because of the portfolio changes made in the electric power sector, it adds. Coal still accounts for 30% of the nation's electricity mix -- down from 52% in 2007 -- while natural gas makes up 34% and renewable are 15%. As a result, power plant emissions regulated under the Clean Air Act have decreased dramatically, says the sustainability organization Ceres, in a June 2017 report. That includes sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and carbon dioxide, which the group says its slightly more than 1990 levels. Those emissions peaked in 2007, but have been falling since then. Certainly, the newfound supply of shale gas coupled with stricter regulations on coal-fired power plants are causing some of the shift from coal to natural gas. But the falling price of both wind and solar technologies is also encouraging those investments, along with favorable tax laws. At the same time, utilities are getting pressured from all sides to offer better, cheaper and cleaner products. The best indicator of market trends is the nation’s utilities, which have said that they have no plans to build any more coal plants. Companies such as American Electric Power, Duke Energy and Southern Company are instead focused on natural gas-fired electricity and on expanding their renewable portfolios. It’s about meeting the demands of their customers in a cost-effective and reliable way. Consider also the midwestern United States, where a number of utilities are now actively pursuing carbon-reduction strategies: Dynegy Inc., Alliant Energy Corp., CMS Energy Corp., Great Plains Energy and Xcel Energy, which has long been named on the greenest utilities in the country. Dynegy Corp. is in the midst of retiring multiple coal units. 2. While Donald Trump was being inaugurated as the 45th president last January, California was busy unveiling its new strategy to reduce carbon emissions by 40% by 2030 from 1990 levels. The move is in stark contrast to Trump's positions on the environment. By 2050, California hopes to have cut its greenhouse gas emissions by 80%. And it is something that the state says will actually work to create jobs. To get there, the state will also employ strategies such as vehicle emissions limits, energy efficiency standards for buildings and renewable portfolio standards for utilities, as well as cap-and-trade. Moreover, California, New York, and Washington, which make up a fifth of the U.S. economy and 10% of its greenhouse gas emissions, announced the formation of the United States Climate Alliance, which is a coalition of those states willing to commit to the terms of the Paris climate agreement. These states "are committed to achieving the US goal of reducing emissions 26–28 percent from 2005 levels and meeting or exceeding the targets of the federal Clean Power Plan," according to the state of New York. "We in California and in states all across America believe it's time to act," Governor Brown added. 1. While cities and states are helping to accelerate the low-carbon trend by implementing such things as building efficiency codes and renewable portfolio standards, it is the corporate community that is acting on those incentives by listening to its customers and adopting the technologies. Consider that Alcoa, American Express, AT&T, Bank of America, Berkshire Hathaway Energy, Best Buy, BioGen, Cargill, CA Technologies and Coca Cola have all signed pledges to reduce signed pledges to reduce their carbon footprints. Meantime, Intel, Apple, Amazon, Google and Microsoft have also ponied up, saying that carbon reduction strategies would boost investment in renewable energy while beefing up American competitiveness, innovation and job growth. Companies such Calpine Corp., Exelon Corp., General Electric, PG&E Corp., Royal Dutch Shell and Tesla are among those voicing support for the participation in global climate change talks. So are WalMart, Target Corp. and CostCo. Moreover, 365 businesses that include DuPont, General Mills and Schneider Electric signed a letter to President Trump asking him to stick with the nation’s current carbon policies, including the Paris agreement and Clean Power Plan. A Thompson Reuters white paper, meanwhile, specifically notes Xcel Energy, Ingersoll Rand and Total for their efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. Total, for example, is divesting of coal holdings while investing more in solar energy. The list goes on — and one that will endure long after Trump leaves the office he now holds.