After nearly 50 failed attempts over 40 years, the United States Senate, specifically one maverick Senator from Alaska whose vote the leadership badly needed for the new tax Act, adorned it with a particularly bad idea. It authorized oil-drilling leases on the Coastal Plain (which the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has called the “biological heart”) of Alaska’s crown jewel, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. As usual, the Senate overlooked its own and other federal agencies’ previous findings that oil extraction there would gravely compromise national security. During what’s bound to be a slow and contentious multi-year process, vigorous challenges to the leasing authorization are expected, based on law, Native rights, public-lands and environmental policy, climate, and other important principles. But national security should rank high too—and could be a showstopper. The risk is not hypothetical. The Trans-Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS) that is the only way to bring the oil south has already been disabled by operator errors, holed by gunfire, incompetently bombed twice, saved from competent winter bombing only by luck, and reported to have attracted the attention of capable terrorist groups. Those threats are unlikely to have decreased. If you like the Strait of Hormuz, you’ll love another one As I documented in 1988, 1989, 2001, 2002, and 2015 inter alia, and pithily summarized in a 2008 one-pager, “Drilling for oil in the…Refuge should offend conservatives because it’s insecure, unimportant, unprofitable, and uncompetitive.” Alas, on this issue there seem to be no conservatives (except Senator McCain in 2008 and Senator Collins in 2017). If there were, though, what questions would they ask? Let’s start with “insecure.” Refuge oil can be delivered only via the impressive but geriatric Trans-Alaska Pipeline System. TAPS is failure- and corrosion-prone, a decade past its original design life (or at least two decades by the time Refuge oil could flow, though the permit has been extended to 2034), and now carrying a fourth of its original throughput. It’s hovering around problematic minimum flow levels that can be reduced considerably but could become cost-limited as lower volumes raise shipping cost per barrel while oil prices stay low. If running TAPS becomes economically unviable, any unshipped oil becomes stranded and worthless; conversely, postulating that if discovered, Refuge oil will be worth extracting implies a commitment to keep TAPS running at any cost. Cash-strapped Alaska, its negative-income-tax bonanza from Prudhoe Bay largely depleted, is caught between dwindling oil revenues (over half its budget) and the shrinking attractiveness of its high-cost, high-risk hydrocarbons. But regardless of economics, TAPS remains one of the world’s most vulnerable, indefensible, and irreparable pieces of energy infrastructure. A hawkish and oil-friendly Oklahoman—ex-CIA Director R. James Woolsey—called it “Uncle Sam’s ‘Kick Me’ sign…frighteningly insecure,” so “Reliance both on Mideast oil and on vulnerable energy infrastructure such as TAPS imperils the security of the US and its friends.” When Mr. Woolsey and I gave invited testimony to the Senate Energy Committee in 2006, Senator Lisa Murkowski criticized us for citing an old source—still the authoritative unclassified treatise on domestic energy vulnerability and resilience, which I’d coauthored in 1981 for the Pentagon with Jim’s Foreword (co-bylined by Admiral Tom Moorer, who was President Nixon’s Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff). Jim and I replied, almost in unison, that nothing had changed, except adding cyber-vulnerabilities. Eleven years later, what else has changed? TAPS is older, oil is cheaper, alternatives are more potent and abundant, and the world is more dangerous. It’s even more true that, as I detailed in 2001, “oil reserves almost anywhere else on earth are more accessible and more reliably deliverable than those above the Arctic Circle.” For over half a century, Presidents have rightly worried about how easily adversaries could cut oil flows through the Strait of Hormuz chokepoint. Heightening, rather than phasing out, dependence on an all-American equivalent would be the height of folly. Those eager to do it anyway ignored the vulnerability, but adversaries may not. Magical politics Proponents of Refuge drilling needed concurrent approval by the House, Senate, and President. Finally aligning those political planets couldn’t wait for spiking oil prices as previously, so proponents grabbed the fleeting opportunity. And thus this zombie notion, hoary and pitiable as a starving polar bear, rose again from the grave to wander the halls of Congress. The three reasons for its hasty resurrection were unrelated to economic or security benefits: (1) Republican Senators could invent a projection of $1.1b of lease revenues (plus the same for Alaska) to provide less than a thousandth of the revenue needed to hold the tax bill’s total cost within the budget-reconciliation limits that permitted the tax bill’s passage without debate or a Senate supermajority. The budgeted proceeds assume that bidders will pay one or two orders of magnitude more per acre than recent North Slope bids. That’s a fantasy, but there’s no apparent penalty if lease sales years hence yield less revenue than promised now—or no revenue at all. The point was to conjure up a parliamentary maneuver to approve drilling, in the guise of a budget and tax bill passable with no minority participation. (2) Senator Murkowski could score political points now for bringing bacon home to Alaska—a goal that long eluded her father and predecessor—even if the benefits later prove imaginary. (3) Those who reflexively extol anything that defenders of environment, wildlife, and public lands detest could rejoice. Substantive benefits are unlikely to materialize, though, because the underlying business logic is bogus: no sensible oil company will invest in leasing and discovering oil that it could not then profitably extract. Even if leasing survives legal challenges, if federal politics and policies don’t change during the decade-plus from now to potential first production, and if the huge uncertainties about the amount of oil present (if any) and the cost of bringing it to market are all favorably resolved, nonetheless only the most foolhardy oil company would bet on durable profits. Here’s why. Dubious oil First, this play’s geology is ugly: any oil present is likely to be scattered and costly to extract. That’s consistent with the 1987 Department of the Interior assessment, whose data were never released for review. DoI assumed already-repealed tax breaks, twice today’s world oil price, and twice the likelihood of finding twice the oil that the State of Alaska’s geologist predicted from fuller data, yet the fine print found an 81% likelihood of finding no economically recover­able oil. Properly adjusted for that hidden risk, the "risked" odds were 15:1 against finding as much as six months’ national supply, and over 100:1 against finding another supergiant Prudhoe Bay-sized oilfield. Independent analysts and GAO later found, in effect, that the risked mean expected reserves would be closer to six days of national supply, because DoI had overstated finding probabilities by up to fivefold and assumed unrealistically high oil prices. In short, the geology and economics are unpromising and highly uncertain. The only certainty is that a spiderweb of roads, pads, infrastructure, and industrial activities would trash the critical calving and nursing grounds of this Arctic Serengeti—along with participating firms’ reputations, important in modern financial and retail markets. Any prudent Board would think thrice and just say no. The bigger picture is that the prospect of making money from Refuge oil depends on four other main variables, and all are moving the wrong way for drillers: oil supply is rising, world oil prices remain depressed and volatile, oil demand is flattening and expected to fall, and Arctic production costs are generally rising. Let’s consider these factors in turn—all in a global context, because the US is a price taker in the global oil market, and any Refuge oil would probably be shipped to Asia, not burned in America. Bad fundamentals Oil majors have never been interested in spending their own money (or other forms of capital) to drill in the Refuge, because they assess that almost any other prospect in the world would have lower costs and risks. In today’s market, as The Wall Street Journal headlined, “Oil Glut Makes Alaska Reserves Less Attractive to Drillers.” Oil prices have plummeted and struggle to recover, the cash-strapped industry has more than halved its exploration budgets, Shell and Conoco Phillips have abandoned their offshore Arctic ambitions (Shell after investing $7 billion), the market is glutted with oil from diverse geologies and geographies, and shareholders are clamoring to start eating the bulging goose rather than stuffing it with even more and costlier new inventory. As Andrew Stanley, an analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, concluded in June, “Given current oil prices, it is debatable whether any of [the Trump Administration policies opening new Arctic oil exploration]…will lead to a substantial increase in North Slope activity. Even with the forecast [4.2%/y] rate of decline of North Slope production, it is likely that TAPS will survive until it is 50 [in 2027] but beyond that, its future is uncertain.” It would take at least that long, in proponents’ best case, for any oil to flow from the Refuge, if its southward delivery were still feasible, affordable, and somehow secure. Shrinking demand prospects Often overlooked is the simultaneous serious weakening of long-term oil demand prospects, which will weigh on world oil prices and producers’ financial viability. The U.S. economy used 65% less oil per dollar of GDP in 2016 than in 1975, and the US Energy Information Adminstration’s 2017 Reference Case predicts US oil use won’t return to its 2016 absolute level until the 2040s. But EIA’s assumed future oil-efficiency gains, constrained by law to common technologies and current policies, only scratch the surface of profitable oil displacement opportunities. In 1989, the untapped reserves of inexpensive oil-efficiency technology were 54 times the average projection of what Refuge drilling might yield. Since then, efficiency competitors have become bigger and cheaper, as I summarized for Shell and publicly. Then just this year, India, previously considered the world’s top energy and oil growth market, committed to 100%-electric, shared, and connected personal mobility by 2030, China continued on track and accelerating for tenfold electric-vehicle expansion in 2015–20. EV forecasts soared, seriously threatening another oil price crash around the time new frontier projects could come onstream). And radically cheaper batteries came clearly into view, obviating the President’s new autarkic policy—already unsound for rare earths—to promote US lithium-mining. Between bountiful supply and rapidly spreading expectations of “peak car” and “peak oil” demand (often confused with peak oil supply, which comes later), the likelihood of sustained very high oil prices for decades—a requirement for any Refuge oil to return profits—is remote and fading. High oil prices, as I foresaw in 2001, don’t last: they “set the stage for another price crash as burgeoning energy savings coincide, then collide, with the new administration’s push to stimulate energy supplies. Producers who answer that call will risk shouldering the cost of added supply without the revenue to pay for it, for oil prices high enough to make Refuge oil profitable would collapse before or as supply boomed.” On the contrary, America and the world could readily repeat the stunning demand turnaround of 1977–85, when the US raised GDP 27%, cut oil use 17%, cut net oil imports 50% and net Persian Gulf imports 87%, and slashed OPEC’s output 48%, breaking its pricing power for a decade. The biggest bonanza came from more-efficient cars, each driving 1% fewer miles on 20% fewer gallons, thanks 4% to smaller size and 96% to smarter design. In 1979–85, new U.S. autos averaged every five months a 0.4-mpg efficiency gain saving as much gasoline as Refuge oil, if economic, might supply. Today’s remaining oil-efficiency opportunities continue to get bigger and cheaper; about two-thirds of those in automobiles aren’t even revealed by the standard analytic methods used by industry and government, but are emerging in the marketplace. Rising costs Finally, production and delivery costs and risks for Refuge oil are rising. The thawing Arctic makes offshore access easier but onshore access harder as warmth and freshwater scarcity challenge ice roads. (The Arctic is warming twice as fast as the global average, and in Barrow / Utqiaġvik, temperatures recently rose faster than computers were programmed to consider plausible.) Production technologies keep improving, but most will advantage conventional plays at least as much as Arctic ones. And if fracked oil is such a competitive threat to conventional oil that Saudi Arabia, with so much of the world's cheapest oil, hopes to buy fracking properties to bolster Aramco’s IPO, how can some of the world’s costliest and riskiest oil beneath the Arctic Refuge possibly merit investment? My prior analyses, spanning three decades and a wide range of oil prices and other conditions, all found Refuge drilling economically unsound. I might be wrong. Or I might not. At the risk of seeming immodest, my widely ridiculed 1976 vision of US energy demand was found to offer the only accurate published foresight for 2000. My team’s Pentagon-cosponsored 2004 analysis Winning the Oil Endgame understated actual demand reductions through 2016 by 1-1/2 million barrels per day, and understated actual net-import reductions by 3 Mb/d without or 7 with tight oil. Our equally startling 2004 “grand synthesis” Reinventing Fire—detailing how to eliminate US oil, coal, and nuclear power and to halve natural-gas needs by 2050 while growing the economy 2.6-fold and saving $5 trillion net present value in private internal cost—is so far (2010–16) on track in the marketplace. And my 2015 prediction that the Keystone XL pipeline would lack durable supplies and customers proved correct. Place your bets. Creation care by judicious restraint An Administration committed to national security has many immediate policy opportunities. For example, it would immediately choose to retain existing auto-efficiency standards—thus avoiding serious and gratuitous damage to the U.S. auto industry while permanently saving, with no carbon emissions or security risks, about six times as much oil as might be found beneath the Refuge, and at an assured net profit (public and private), not a likely net loss. It wouldn’t let the temptation of ideological point-scoring, parochial politics, and accounting gimmicks drive the revival of an undead and outdated idea that hazards America’s national security and prosperity. It could respect and reinforce more than a century of often Republican-led public-lands and wildlife protection. And it could accept the oil industry’s and the market’s clear verdict that Arctic oil’s extreme costs and risks aren’t worth the candle—let alone the waxy and unpumpable 800-mile-long candle that a wintertime terrorist could turn TAPS into. A sober and informed decisionmaker would instead conclude, as I expect our market and political systems will ultimately do, that Refuge oil could make neither money nor sense. Its highest and best use would be keep its carbon safely stored, secure its unique setting in trust forever, and hold up the ground beneath the feet of the people and animals who live there. Amory B. Lovins, a member of the National Petroleum Council and a 2011–17 Professor of Practice at the Naval Postgraduate School, has advised business, government, and military leaders on energy and security issues for nearly three decades and oil-industry leaders for four. He cofounded the independent, apolitical, market-oriented, nonprofit Rocky Mountain Institute. These views are his own.