The Venezuelan government is putting its foot down on free speech. Or rather, putting its foot on the necks of independent reporters in a country en route to becoming the biggest one-party town in all of the Americas. The National Media Workers Union (SNTP) reported Thursday that their members witnessed 498 instances of harassment by state authorities over news articles, 26.5% more than the cases reported in 2016. In 70% of the cases reported to SNTP, those applying the pressure were from state institutions -- namely the police and military. According to the group, which represents privately held media outlets, the government led by the Socialists United of Venezuela (PSUV) has actively stifled free speech. One barometer of this has been the arrest and jailing of 66 journalists and editors covering the anti-government protests that ripped through the country over a two month period starting in April. Venezuela is suffering its worst political and economic crisis in a generation. Food shortages are common, as are shortages of medicine. SNTP said that the government continues to suppress those stories in national newspapers. At least 49 broadcasters of different sizes ceased operation in 2017, though this number includes music stations like Magic 99.1 FM. CNN was kicked off the air in February. Investors have been paying close attention to what some on Wall Street have called the "Cubanization" of Venezuela. The country nearly defaulted on three bond issues in November, paying them late. China's Sinopec, an oil company, is suing them for late payments on a bond. The economy is more closed now than it was under Hugo Chavez, hardly a fan of American capitalism. This year, Chavez's handpicked successor, Nicolas Maduro, created a group of 'yesmen' and 'yeswomen' called the Constituent Assembly, effectively weakening the National Assembly that is controlled by the opposition parties. Last week, Brazil's president Michel Temer used his speech at a gathering of Mercosul heads of state from South America to call out the Maduro administration for its push towards one-party rule. Venezuela responded by kicking Brazil's senior diplomat out of the country. Brazil responded in kind this week. Venezuela's economy first fell into recesion when oil prices collapsed to $30 a barrel. At first, that seemed like a good enough excuse for this one trick pony nation to fall on hard times. But other oil rich nations have gone through similar problems, including Russia, a country whose banks and energy companies are sanctioned by the U.S. and Europe. Russia has grown like gang-busters in comparison. Venezuela's ideological adherence to its own form of socialism -- coupled with high levels of corruption -- have kept this once rich country down longer than oil prices. Inflation is in the triple digits. Economic contraction is expected again this year. Venezuela is a shadow of its former self. It faces a massive brain drain that may take a generation to recover. There is no end in sight to Venezuela's self-imposed political crisis. The PSUV government blames the U.S. for its problems, with Maduro's counterpart in Bolivia, president Evo Morales, saying during the recent Mercosul meeting that the country was a victim of economic sabotage and false media narratives. Transparency International's last Corruption Perception Index, published last year, lists Venezuela as the most corrupt country in all of the Americas. Venezuela's government and public institutions are about as trust worthy as Iraq and not much better than Afghanistan, a total embarrassment to what was once one of the richest countries in Latin America. 