A consolidation wave hit the oil and gas industry in November — that of onetime bankrupt explorers and producers. On Nov. 15, SandRidge Energy announced it had agreed to buy Bonanza Creek Energy for $746 million. Both filed for bankruptcy last year, plagued by low commodity prices and high debt loads, with SandRidge emerging in October 2016 and Bonanza Creek in April of this year. Less than a week later, private equity-owned Talos Energy announced it was merging with publicly traded Stone Energy, creating an enterprise worth $2.5 billion. Lafayette, La.-based Stone filed for bankruptcy last year but emerged this past April. SandRidge announced yesterday it was walking away from the Bonanza Creek combination, yielding to billionaire investor Carl Icahn and other shareholders who didn't like the deal. Despite that development, observers expect that more formerly bankrupt companies will take part in the merger game. Who could be next? Four companies could fit the bill, according to an oil and gas investment banker who asked not to be identified. They've all spent some time in bankruptcy court. They've all reemerged with new ownership that probably wants to exit soon. And with oil prices still considerably off from their highs, it makes sense for smaller operators to combine to cut duplicative functions, capture economies of scale and generate some synergies. The first is Tulsa, Okla.-based Midstates Petroleum, which owns valuable properties in the Mississippian Lime in northwestern Oklahoma and southern Kansas. It emerged from bankruptcy in October 2016 with an unlevered balance sheet, solid liquidity and an inexpensive valuation. With encouragement from distressed debt investors-turned-activists, in October Midstates brought on a new CEO, David Sambrooks, who previously was CEO of Sabine Oil & Gas. He's reviewing the company's operations and assets looking for ways to cut costs and create value. Asset sales could help. The company already has sold noncore assets in Lincoln County, Oklahoma, and it's hired SunTrust to assist it in exploring strategic alternatives for its Anadarko Basin and Northwest Stack assets in Oklahoma. But it's unclear whether those properties will bring in many buyers – or much cash. David Beard, an analyst at Coker Palmer Institutional, said the company's shares are undervalued relative to both cash flow multiples and net asset values. He thinks the stock has a fair value assessment of $22 per share based on next year's expected Ebitda and a net asset value of $26 per share (Midstates closed at $16.62 on Thursday). That said, Beard isn't sure who would be looking to purchase the company's assets, as its core Mississippian Lime assets are "relatively higher cost" compared with large, low cost wells in West Texas or further south in the Stack region. Blue Ridge Mountain Resources is another possible target. The Irving, Texas-based company, whose predecessor, Magnum Hunter Resources, emerged from bankruptcy in May 2016, is active in the Marcellus and Utica natural gas plays. The company also been divesting assets to pay down debt, improve cash flows and fund development. In April it sold its Divide County, North Dakota, properties in the Bakken play to Apollo Global Management-backed Resource Energy Can-Am for $34.7 million. And in September, it shed its entire stake in Eureka Midstream, which owns a natural gas gathering system in West Virginia and Ohio, to an unnamed buyer for an undisclosed sum. Blue Ridge's CEO, John Reinhart, has 25 years of experience in the oil and gas industry, with the last 10 in the Marcellus/Utica, serving in operations leadership roles at Ascent Resources and Chesapeake Energy. His plan for next year: to consolidate the company's asset base around its Utica/Marcellus core acreage, develop a track record so it can attract capital and have material but sustainable production. It would be easier to do that as part of a larger company. Blue Ridge’s stock closed recently at $9 per share versus its 52-week range of $7.50 to $12. It has a market cap of around $450 million. Then there’s Penn Virginia, which focuses on South Texas’ Eagle Ford Shale. The Houston company exited bankruptcy in September of last year after eliminating $1.1 billion in debt. It may be looking for buyers: Reuters reported in June that the company had hired investment bank Jefferies to advise it on a possible sale, citing unnamed sources. The news agency said Penn Virginia’s former creditors, which include hedge funds Strategic Value Partners, Anchorage Capital Group and Contrarian Capital Management, want to cash out. There’s been a lot of M&A activity in the Eagle Ford. Earlier this year Sanchez Energy and Blackstone picked up properties in the area from Anadarko Petroleum for $2.3 billion. Penn Virginia itself bought assets in the basin from Devon Energy earlier this year for $205 million. Penn Virginia’s stock is trading at around $39 per share, versus $42.81 when the Reuters report came out. Finally, there’s natural gas explorer Ultra Petroleum, which has been active in the Pinedale and Jonah fields in Wyoming, the Uinta Basin in Utah and the Marcellus in Appalachia. It emerged from bankruptcy in April and sold its Marcellus properties to Alta Marcellus Development, a unit of Blackstone-backed Alta Resources, earlier this month for $115 million. The company is 18% owned by investment firm Fir Tree Partners, which has been pushing management to create shareholder value. Ultra appears to be on the mend. Even though it reported a loss in the third quarter, it maintained cash flow neutrality, which the company defined as operating cash flow minus capital expenditures. It’s also hired CIBC Griffis & Small to help it sell its non-core assets in the Unita, which would bring in cash — and make it more valuable to potential buyers. Ultra’s stock closed recently at $9.36, versus its 52-week trading range of $7.18 to $15.75. Its market cap amounts to around $1.8 billion. There are others. Analysts say onetime bankrupt Chaparral Energy is an attractive pure-play operator in Oklahoma’s Stack region after selling its enhanced oil recovery assets in October to an unnamed buyer for $170 million. Another possibility is Halcón Resources, which also has been shedding noncore assets, leaving it with valuable properties in West Texas’ Delaware basin. The company expects to be cash-flow neutral in 2019. And then there are SandRidge and Bonanza Creek, which could also go off and find more suitable mates. 