Iran deadly protests could drive prices back towards $100-mark and even higher. It happened back in 1979, and it could happen again this time around. There are several reasons for that. One of them is that protests place Iran’s regime between a rock and a hard place. Letting protests go on and risking chaos or cranking down on protesters and risking another round of sanctions, this time around for humanitarian reasons. Either scenario is bullish for oil, as it could limit the flow of oil coming out from Iran. Then there’s the potential for protests spreading into Saudi Arabia, as the two countries share a young population that has yet to have its own ‘Spring,” as was the case in Egypt, Tunisia, and elsewhere in the Middle-East. And that’s a bullish scenario for oil, too. Worse, protests can push Iran and Saudi Arabia into an outright war, as the Iranian regime blames ‘enemies’ for the protests. And though it didn’t mention openly Saudi Arabia, it’s the first ‘enemy’ that comes to mind. Diplomatic relations between the two countries turned sour two years ago when Saudi Arabia proceeded with plans to execute a dissident Shiite cleric, Nimr al-Nimr. To make matters worse, the geopolitics of the region have changed recently, with an outright war between Iran and Saudi Arabia being a win-win proposition for many parties involved in the region. That’s according to Athens-based oil and transportation expert Theo Matsopoulos. The first party is Saudi Arabia, which could see many benefits from such war. “Saudi Arabia has based its economy on revenues from oil,” says Matsopoulos. “The program Vision 2030 inspired by Bin Salman is calculated at 261 billion USD, in order to change transform KSA's economy - which is currently on a recession- from oil dependent to a more open western economy. The financing of this project could derive from the privatization of ARAMCO, which needs as higher as possible oil price.” The second party is America, which will see a couple of benefits, too. “The higher prices that could result from the disruption of oil supply, would benefit US shale gas exporters,” continues Matsopoulos. “And the war could bring new orders to the American weapons industry from the replenishment of ammos and new aircraft - artilleries.” Then there’s a third party to see benefits from the war, Russia, which needs higher oil prices in order to balance its government budget that stands at 3.4 percent of GDP. Simply put, crude oil, can work as the Joker Card of the global geopolitical game, in favor of the USA, Russia, and Saudi Arabia. Wall Street has yet to catch up with the situation, as crude oil has been trading flat, close to $60 a barrel. Source: Finance.yahoo.com 1/2/2018