Interest rates are on the move today. So is oil. And the latter has a lot to do with the former. For much of the past quarter we've talked about how disconnected the interest rate market has been from the stock market and the economy. With stocks putting up 20% last year, the economy growing at close to 3% and unemployment at 4%, and with FIVE Fed rate hikes now in this tightening cycle, the yield on the 10-year Treasury has defied logic. But as we've discussed, we should expect that logic to be a little warped when we're coming out of an unprecedented global economic crisis that was combatted by an unprecedented and globally coordinated monetary policy. And that continues to create dislocations in financial markets. Specifically, when global central banks continue to print money, and indiscriminately buy U.S. Treasurys with that freshly printed money (i.e. the dollars the trade for it), they will keep market rates pinned down. And they have done just that. Of course, that helps fuel the U.S. and global recovery, as it keeps borrowing and service rates cheap for things like mortgages, consumer loans, corporate debt and sovereign debt. But last month, we talked about where the real anchor now exists for global interest rates. It's in Japan. As long as Japan is pegging the yield on the 10-year Japanese government bond at zero, they will have license to print unlimited yen, and buy unlimited global government bonds, and anchor rates. What would move Japan off of that policy? That's the question. When they do abandon that policy (pegging JGB yields at zero), it will signal the end of QE in Japan and the end of global QE. Rates will go on a tear. With that the architect of the stimulus program in Japan, Shinzo Abe, said this week that he would keep the pedal to the metal, but indicated a possibility that they could achieve their goal of beating deflation this year. That has sent global rates moving. The benchmark 10-year yield has jumped to 2.60% this week, the highest since March of last year. Another big influence on rates is, and will be, the price of oil. As we've discussed, the price of oil has played a huge role in the Fed's view toward inflation. And that influence (of oil prices) on the inflation view is shared at other major central banks. On that note, oil traded near the $65 mark today, the highest levels since 2014. Remember we looked at this chart for oil back in November. We had this inverse head and shoulders (in the chart above) that projected a move back to the low $80s. With oil now up 26% from November, here’s an updated look ... This is beginning to play out according to script for the star commodity investors we talked about this summer, Leigh Goehring and Adam Rozencwajg. They’ve been wildly bullish calling for $75 to $110 oil. Earlier in the summer, they said “when inventory gets this low we run the risk of triple digit oil prices.” For help building a high potential portfolio, follow me in our Forbes Billionaire’s Portfolio, where you look over my shoulder as I follow the world’s best investors into their best stocks. Our portfolio of highest conviction, billionaire-owned stocks is up close to 50% over the past two years. And 25% of our portfolio is in commodities stocks. You can join me here and get positioned for a big 2018.