Six months ago, there was virtually no business on earth more toxic than nuclear power. Japanese chipmaker and technology giant Toshiba was nearly felled this summer by its bet on the U.S. nuclear market through the acquisition of Westinghouse Electric, a division that was put into administration this spring. Utilities Southern Company SO +0% Now it appears big money is stepping back into the sector. Perhaps industry players and alternative asset managers are beginning to stake bets on the sector foreseeing positive changes from the Trump administration, which is seeking to bolster power base loads across the U.S. using once out of favor power sources. On Wednesday, Dominion Energy struck an all-stock merger bid for SCANA, a South Carolina utility giant that would expand Dominion's footprint in the Carolinas and increase its pipeline scale. A bit of bargain hunting by Dominion, whose operations are geared to mid-Atlantic states like Virginia, the deal could bolster its earnings for years to come, according to Adam Abelson, a Dominion holder at investment firm Stralem & Co. On Thursday, the dealmaking revved up. Brookfield Asset Management struck a $4.6 billion acquisition of Toshiba's Westinghouse Electric. In both the Dominion and Westinghouse deals, there could be competition coming respectively from other utilities and asset management firms. Dominion's bid for SCANA will show whether consolidation and increased geographic footprint will be a new theme in the utilities sector, which has been a treated by investors as a safe yield play to park money. Brookfield's Westinghouse effort may be the deal to watch on Wall Street because it could reveal a big skill at the $265 billion in assets giant, best known for its investments in office buildings and malls (Brookfield Property Partner, Mkt Cap $5.6B), infrastructure (Brookfield Infrastructure Partners, Mkt Cap $16.6B) and renewable energy (Brookfield Renewable Partners, Mkt Cap $10.8B). Though it is property and infrastructure that often garner the headlines for Brookfield, in the coming years the Canadian firm may show big results from its private equity and restructuring investments, made by way of its NYSE-listed private equity public partnership, called Brookfield Business Partners (Mkt Cap $4.6B). Brookfield will be buying Westinghouse using its Brookfield Business Partners entity, which is expected to contribute about $1 billion in equity to finance the deal and raise billions more using debt. Notably, Brookfield Business Partners will itself finance 50% of the equity check while limited partners and co-investors are likely to supply the rest. Why watch Brookfield Business Partners? At a time when differentiation is rare on Wall Street and bids on assets up for sale involve dozens of firms competing against each other, Brookfield appears to have a unique method when it comes to underwriting its PE and restructuring investments. First off, Brookfield uses a hybrid holding company approach to its investments. BBU generally contributes between 30% and 50% of the equity to its deals, meaning investors in the NYSE-entity own the financial risk and reward of its investments outright and not just fee and carry streams coming from limited partners. (Some investors like holding companies since they own the assets, others avoid the complexity preferring to bet on asset management fee streams.) This structure is just the beginning of the differentiation. In recent years, BBU's notable deals have included Graftech, a maker of graphite electrodes used in electric arc steel furnaces, and Teekay Offshore, a maker of offshore drilling rigs, transport vessels and tankers. At the time of these deals, both companies were hurtling towards bankruptcy due to stretched balance sheets and over aggressive capex plans, all made worse by cyclical lulls on the steel and oil sectors, respectively. In stepped BBU with bailouts in the form of equity infusions that averted bankruptcy courts, but came at prices that amount to a fraction of capital plowed into projects or companies' trading prices at cyclical highs. What's interesting about these deals? Brookfield is known for a contrarian approach to investing; taking advantage of other people's mistakes to buy out-of-favor assets generally below their replacement costs. Brookfield also focuses on businesses with long-term contracted cash flows, thus the firm's underwriting hinges on cashflows and how they may stabilize with the help of its own contributed capital. Certainly the Graftech and Teekay Offshore deals qualify, as does the recent bid for Westinghouse, which is the largest service provider to the nuclear industry. Beyond being contrarian is an interesting cyclical theme. Brookfield appears adept at navigating commodity cycles, entering markets at bottoms when assets are in distress and repairing balance sheets, often avoiding bankruptcy courts altogether. Take Graftech. BBU's deal came as steelmakers were slashing capacity, putting the graphite electrode market in dramatic oversupply and pricing in a tailspin. When the firm inked its May 2015 deal at a price of $693 million, Graftech bonds were rated just above default and trading at around fifty cents on the dollar. The equity infusion provided a way to survive; meanwhile Brookfield began cutting costs and selling non-core assets to bolster liquidity. Ultimately, while Brookfield's timing wasn't perfect, it was near perfect. Steel making is back in a major way globally and the graphite electrode market is in a supply shortage; pricing is skyrocketing. So much so, Graftech bonds were recently trading at over 100-cents on the dollar. Ratings agency Moody's upgraded its bond ratings for the company to B2 from deeply speculative Caa1 with the prospect of further upgrades if it can sign long-term supply contracts at mid-cycle prices. Debt-to-EBITDA may go just 2x, from 16x in mid-2017, Moody's noted, citing company forecasts. If things hold, BBU owners may soon have a big direct interest in a financially healthy, dominant supplier to the resurgent steel industry. It appears BBU investors (and management) are increasingly bullish that the Graftech deal will pan out as a success. Was Brookfield simply lucky? It's unlikely. After all, as described on our May cover story on Brookfield and its billionaire CEO Bruce Flatt, the firm is one of the largest asset owners around the world, focusing on the key cogs of the global economy: It owns dozens of ports on multiple continents, thousands of miles of rail, export terminals for steel-related assets like coal, warehouses, logistics operations, pipelines and property. This gives it a unique vantage into the global economy where it can see trends of supply and demand in real time. Was the China slowdown in mid-2015 and early 2016, which hammered the steel market, permanent or a blip? Having significant boots on the ground in Australia and Brazil, the two dominant resource suppliers to China, would likely give good insight. No surprise, Brookfield is one of the largest foreign investors in both markets. If Graftech's outlook becomes increasingly clear in the first half of 2018, Teekay Offshore's prospects could also begin to turn. Oil prices, particularly Brent crude, are showing signs of stabilizing. Meanwhile LNG export, done by way of export facilities and tankers, may be in the early innings as assets become operational. Again, Brookfield may have a unique perspective. It, by way of a 50% interest in a pipeline network called Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America, is connecting one of the country's biggest pipeline networks to export facilities across the southeast. When this project comes online in late 2018, it could be a further tailwind for LNG exports and consequently Teekay Offshore vessels. Others like Cheniere and Energy Transfer ETE +0% Thursday's Westinghouse deal could have similar attributes. Brookfield is constantly underwriting energy production deals at its renewable arm Brookfield Renewable Partners, whether that means hydro or more recently stepping into the bankruptcy of SunEdison and taking control of some of the largest solar and wind plants in the world. It is the biggest shareholder in Texas utility Vistra Energy, which is presently working to buy Dynegy. Why wouldn't the firm also have a view on the trends in nuclear, whether that's servicing existing assets or increases in capacity? In all of these deals, Brookfield is moving after billions in bad money has been spent; it's simply helping to push along balance sheet and operational restructuring now that the money is already in the ground. Why watch Westinghouse and BBU? If approved by bankruptcy courts, expected in the third quarter of 2018, Westinghouse would be BBU's biggest ever deal and it would elucidate a key trend. Its PE work centers on big companies operating within Brookfield's wider real asset/cogs of the global economy focus where the firm is a leading player. The deal's approval might also coincide with clear signs of turnaround in Graftech and stabilization at Teekay Offshore. If these prove successful, they could begin to validate BBU's own take on private equity (currently its PE assets under management are minuscule compared to the Apollos, Blackstones, Carlyles and KKRs of the world). About the Westinghouse deal, BBU CEO Cyrus Madon said, "Westinghouse is a high-quality business that has established itself as a leader in its field, with a long-term customer base and a reputation for innovation. We look forward to bringing our significant expertise and reputation as a long-term owner and operator of critical infrastructure in the U.S. and globally, as well as our deep facilities management capabilities, to enhance the Company’s position as a leading global infrastructure services provider to the power generation industry.” For more: Forbes' Cover Story on Brookfield Why Brookfield Is Betting On The Ailing Mall 