The financial newsletter field has long dominated by men, so it might surprise some that many of the most successful advisors we cover are women; indeed, MoneyShow.com has been built over 3 decades by Kim Githler, herself a pioneer in financial education. What are the top women advisors recommending now? Here are their best ideas for 2018. Chloe Lutts Jensen, Cabot Dividend Investor CME Group — my top aggressive idea for 2018 — has been in the news recently because the company just started offering bitcoin futures, allowing speculators to bet on the cryptocurrency’s price without owning it. But we added the stock to our portfolio back in October for longer-term growth and its track record of dividend increases and large special dividends. CME Group owns and operates options, futures and derivatives exchanges, including the world’s largest derivatives exchange, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, where investors can trade contracts based on interest rates, stocks, currencies, commodity prices and more. Commodity futures were originally designed to allow commodity producers to hedge against price changes, but are now also widely used for speculation, mostly by institutional investors. This steady expansion of the derivatives market has fueled steady growth at CME Group. Revenues have increased in each of the last five years, by an average of 4% per year. Net income has also increased every year, by an average of 11% per year. The company has beaten estimates in each of the last four quarters. CME Group not only pays regular quarterly dividends, the company also distributes excess cash as a special dividend at the end of each year. This year’s special dividend of $3.50 will more than double the stock’s annual yield. The company has also increased its regular dividend for six years in a row while also bringing their payout ratio down from a high of 66% in 2012 to 51% today. CME Group also boasts a great chart. Its current uptrend started in June 2016, when it broke out of a long base to the upside. The stock rose 40% over the next 17 months, before surging to new all-time highs amid December’s bitcoin mania. While the latest surge will likely be followed by a period of consolidation, longer-term, I expect excellent total returns. Carla Pasternak, Dow Theory Letters' Income Investor Copper and gold miner Freeport-McMoRan is expected to grow earnings per share nearly fivefold this year , another almost 50% in 2018, and more than 70% annually over the next five years. Earnings are forecast to rise mainly in the wake of higher copper prices, which are currently trading at a three-year high at better than $3 a pound. Prices have been trending higher this year as China’s crackdown on its copper smelters to control pollution has increased its reliance on copper imports. A lack of reserves to meet projected demand for copper in the coming years is also pushing prices higher. As the world’s largest publicly traded copper producer, with over 50% of revenue derived from copper, Freeport-McMoRan is expected to benefit from higher prices. Uncertainty about the fate of its Grasberg copper mine in Indonesia has been a large overhang for the shares, but the clouds are clearing. Right now, Freeport owns 91% of Grasberg, the world’s second-largest copper mine, and the Indonesian government owns the balance. In an effort to control the country’s natural resources, Jakarta is demanding mining companies get new licenses and build smelters for local production. In response, Freeport said it will sell a 51% interest in the mine to the state if it can retain operating control until 2041. At stake is whether the two parties can agree on price for this interest. Investors are optimistic that the parties are close to closing in on a deal that’s a win-win for all sides. But the shares are still trading at a forward P/E of only 10 times and a 1-year trailing price to earnings growth rate of just 0.5, which leaves room for considerable upside. (A PEG of 1.0 or less represents good value) For almost the last two years, the shares have been dead money. In the last several weeks, however, the technical picture has radically changed. In December, the stock broke out above $17 resistance that had restrained it for almost a year. The next important resistance I see is in the $23-$24 range. Vivian Lewis, Global Investing My top pick for conservative investors for 2018 is Templeton Emerging Markets Income Fund, a closed-end yield fund that pays monthly distributions and has $630 million under management. If you buy a fund or ETF invested in U.S. Treasury inflation bonds, you don’t need active managers. This is not the case for emerging market bonds, where skilled management is needed. In this case, Templeton Emerging is actively managed by a team of experienced bond hands. Its top 10 holdings include 9.4% in two Zambian government bonds yielding 8.97% and 5.37% respectively; 5.1% in Kenyan government bonds yielding 6.875%; 4.8% in Senegalese bonds yielding 6.25%. Its top 10 positions account for 36.44% of its portfolio. The fund is also heavily invested in the private sector although its top holding is a government bond, the Philippine Republic 4.2% of 2024 which accounts for 2.9% of the total holdings. Its second-largest and third-largest holdings, both at 2.1%, are private sector debts from Malaysia and India. The fund trades at a 12.35% discount from net asset value. As such, investors can buy $100 of bonds for only $87.50. It cannot issue new shares without a complicated process. Its Morningstar MORN +0% To make sure that a reversal in earnings will not hurt the fund, it retains part of the earnings of its bonds until the end of the year when they are distributed to shareholders. I recently added this closed-end fund to my portfolio, paying $11.65 per share. Elizabeth Harrow, Schaeffer Investment Research Microblogging site Twitter TWTR +0% The company recently said advertisers have shown significant interest in its live streams (a content area that's rapidly expanding) and Twitter has partnered with high-profile media players like Bloomberg and Buzzfeed to create premium video offerings. The heightened focus on delivering unique content, coupled with the introduction of longer, 280-character tweets, has resulted in higher engagement, according to user stats. And it’s worth pointing out that the newly streamlined Twitter — with no direct competitors in the social media space — remains an attractive potential takeover target for any number of larger rivals. At least one big brokerage firm is buying the bullish prospects for Twitter. In a mid-December note, J.P. Morgan's Doug Anmuth upgraded the shares to Overweight, and predicted a return to revenue growth in 2018. By and large, though, brokerage firms are giving Twitter a wide berth. Out of 37 analysts tracking the stock, 32 have deemed Twitter a Hold or Sell (including one Strong Sell). While these bearishly skewed ratings seem appropriately configured to the security's lengthy period of underperformance on the charts, most brokerage firms have been so far slow to react to the stock’s technical turnaround. Heading into 2018, additional upgrades could drive fresh waves of buying pressure. Linda McDonough, Profit Catalyst Alert PayPal PYPL +0% PayPal is winning over young customers with its Venmo service. The payment company’s Venmo is a peer-to-peer payment program. Millennials love Venmo. Using physical cash puzzles this generation who prefers to pay via their mobile phones. The service is an app that sits on your phone. It links to your bank account, credit or debit card. To date, it is used mostly to pay another person. Opening Venmo up to retail payments next year will rev up PayPal’s profits. Venmo has become so ubiquitous among younger consumers that it is now a verb. Split a pizza? Venmo your roommate $6.00. Just like texting evolved from a teen-only means of swapping gossip to an all-ages method of communication, the mass market is adopting Venmo. PayPal got the Venmo technology when it bought Braintree Payment Systems in 2013. It saw the magic in Braintree’s peer-to-peer payment system. PayPal spent four years building a mass market. Industry experts estimate that Venmo has 10 million users. None of those users currently pay transaction fees. All the while, PayPal’s basic business blossomed. After PayPal added debit and credit cards to payment choices, user growth rocketed. PayPal’s total active account base grew 14% last quarter. With over 200 million active accounts and close to 10 million Venmo users, the company has the scale to enjoy the network effect. PayPal also offers immediate access to Venmo funds for a $0.25 fee. This seems like a small amount to pay for the convenience. I expect this fee will generate significant revenue for the company. For more investment ideas, click here for "MoneyShow’s 35th Annual Top Stock Picks Report: The 100 Best Stocks for 2018." Mary Anne and Pamela Aden, The Aden Forecast The bull market rise in stocks has been impressive. In fact, the stock market has risen every month in 2017 in its longest streak of monthly gains in 22 years. The commodity market is coming alive. After years of low prices, the stronger global economy means that we’ll likely see far better times in the resource sector as 2018 unfolds. Copper seems to be leading the pack and the future looks bright. With demand growing it’s set to head higher. That’s especially true considering the growing popularity of electric cars and their future growth potential. This alone will keep strong upward pressure on copper. Copper’s technical indicators are also looking good. A renewed strong rise began this past year, reinforcing a solid uptrend since 2001. Also, note the developing up-channel encompassing the 1990s to today. This is bullish technical action and several of the other resources are following copper's lead. Crude oil, for instance, is also strong. With production slowing, we could see the oil price much higher in the months ahead. Considering these factors and more, our top pick is BHP Billiton . This company is one of the biggest resource companies in the world. And since it deals in a wide variety of resources, it’s a good all-around stock to own in order to benefit from the upcoming strength in this sector. Ingrid Hendershot, Hendershot Investments Celebrating 40 years in business, The TJX Companies — my top conservative pick for 2018 — posted record financial results in fiscal 2017 with sales topping $33 billion. In 1990, TJX acquired Winners, which has grown into Canada’s leading off-price retailer. In 1992, HomeGoods was introduced to expand the TJX presence in the booming home fashions market. Similarly named T.K. Maxx was launched in 1994 and introduced the off-price concept to the United Kingdom. In 1995, TJX acquired Marshalls , which doubled the company’s size. The newest store divisions include HomeSense, Sierra Trading Post and Trade Secrets. TJX delivers a rapidly changing assortment of quality, brand name merchandise at prices that are 20%-60% less than department and specialty store regular prices As the largest off-price retailer, TJX has tremendous buying power and solid relationships with more than 18,000 merchandise vendors in 100 countries around the world. This retail recipe engenders strong brand loyalty from global consumers of all ages. Comparable store sales have increased each year for 21 consecutive years. Same-store sales have risen each year over the last four decades with the exception of only one year, a truly remarkable retail achievement. As part of its disciplined capital allocation policy, TJX announced a 20% increase in its dividend for fiscal 2018, marking the 21st consecutive year of dividend increases. Over this time period, the dividend has grown at a 23% compound annual rate. Management’s outlook for fiscal 2018 is for total revenues to increase 6% to 7% to $35.2 billion to $35.6 billion, with 1% to 2% comparable store sales growth. The company expects EPS to be up 13%-14% in the range of $3.91 to $3.93 in fiscal 2018, which includes an $.11 per share benefit from a 53rd week in 2018. Long-term investors shopping for a bargain should consider TJX Companies a well-managed high-quality business with strong brand loyalty, outstanding cash flows, steadily growing dividends and substantial share repurchases. Buy. Crista Huff, Cabot Undervalued Stocks Advisor CIT Group CIT +0% Financial companies occupy the sweet spot in America’s growing economy. Rising interest rates, lower income tax rates (both corporate and personal) and deregulation all serve to increase banks’ revenue and net income. However, the news gets better. There’s bipartisan support in the U.S. Senate to change SIFI rules as they apply to banks with less than $250 billion in assets. SIFI rules are regulations that apply to systemically important financial institutions. The stock market has not factored in potential SIFI changes. However, there’s a new and highly unusual administration in Washington, D.C. that’s pushing for reform. As such, I think the long list of proposed SIFI rule changes is going to see some serious action. And that will directly benefit the profitability of small-cap and mid-cap financial institutions. CIT Group is expected to achieve attractive earnings per share growth in the coming years. Consensus estimates point toward gains of 17.5% and 19.0% in 2018 and 2019. The corresponding P/E ratios are low, indicating that the stock is undervalued. For the most part, current estimates do not take into account enhancements from the aforementioned economic and legislative changes that are on the immediate horizon. I am confident that CIT Group is well positioned to capitalize on both the growing economy and revised SIFI rules that benefit mid-cap financial institutions. I rate the stock a Strong Buy.