Perhaps you missed the news late last week because you were caught up in the hysteria caused by a certain book. If you are a sportsman, though, you should pay attention to what happened on Thursday: The Trump administration announced that it would open up nearly all of our offshore waters to drilling. This is not good news for any coastal states. It’s terrible news for anglers in particular. Oil rigs can do much damage to marine life, according to noted author, Paul Greenberg,particularly during the seismic testing that's done before they are constructed. Completed rigs increase the chances of a catastrophic spill, like the Deepwater Horizon one in 2010 (especially now that some of those safety measures designed to prevent such accidents have been repealed). They’d bring much more infrastructure and commercial traffic to what are now pristine places. (And, yes, I know that oil rigs can act as structure and attract fish, but that positive is far outweighed by the negatives--both actual and potential.) And with low oil prices, the question must be asked: Do we even need more drilling now? The Trump administration’s announcement did make one group of people happy, according to a New York Times story:    The logic here, if you can call it that, is pretty strange. These are “our lands” so we should allow corporations to drill on them and make money for themselves and their shareholders? At the highest risk for the construction of new oil rigs, according to the Times story, is the eastern part of the already imperiled Gulf of Mexico, because of the infrastructure already present in the region. That should send a shiver up the spine of all anglers, since that’s home to the fish-rich Everglades and the Florida Keys. One must ask this question yet again: Where is Donald, Jr., in all of this? The self-proclaimed champion of America’s sportsmen—Jr. went to great lengths during the campaign to assure America’s sportsmen that he would be our guardian angel—has been utterly quiet on this issue, just as he has been on all issues affecting sportsmen. He’s had other things on his mind, for sure, but his silence on these issues has been deafening. In the end, this declaration from the administration is probably just saber rattling, as so many of the administration’s proclamations and announcements have been in the past year. Most governors in coastal states—even the Republican ones, like Rick Scott of Florida—have already expressed their strong opposition to the plan. According to the Times article, lawsuits and other pressures could tie this up for years. So the question is why this was done? Why even announce something like this? Was this done just to curry favor with the oil and gas companies? Was it done just to enrage environmentalists and sportsmen? One thing is for sure: If you are an angler or you care about the places where much of our nation’s angling is done, it’s now time to sit up and pay attention now. Sign petitions. Call your local Congressmen and women. Stand behind the governors who are fighting this. Do this now, before talk becomes action. -- 