Senegal, a predominantly rural economy with a population of 15 million people, is one of the poorest countries in Africa. Nearly half of the Senegalese population fall below the poverty level of $50 a year. But in the midst of such glaring poverty, a few Senegalese entrepreneurs have built extremely successful companies and created incredible wealth in the process. Meet 5 Senegalese multi-millionaire entrepreneurs who own companies that have annual revenues of more than $100 million. Yerim Sow Source: Investments Yerim Sow is the founder of the Teyliom Group, an investment company with an extensive portfolio that includes luxury hotels Radisson Blu Dakar, Noom, Seen and Yaas as well as a commercial bank, Bridge Bank. He also owns 7% of MTN Cote D’ Ivoire. Yerim Sow is the son of legendary Senegalese construction magnate Aliou Sow who passed away in August last year. Abdoulaye Diao Source: Oil Senegalese tycoon Abdoulaye Diao founded International Trading Oil and Commodities Corporation (ITOC SA) in 1987. ITOC trades crude oil as well as gasoline, LPG and jet fuel and has annual revenues of more than $600 million. Diao owns the company completely. Mohammed Choubassi & Family Source: Consumer goods Mohammed Choubassi and his brothers own SEBO, the second largest brewery in Senegal with an estimated 30% market share of the beer market. The Choubassi business empire also includes Sofiex, a manufacturer and distributor of pasta, dairy products and frozen foods. The company has annual revenues of more than $220 million. Kabirou Mbodje Source: Money transfer The 53-year-old Senegalese entrepreneur is the founder and controlling shareholder of Wari, Senegal’s most popular money transfer service. Wari, which Mbodje founded in 2008, outcompetes international money transfer giants like Moneygram and Western Union in Senegal. Wari now operates from more than 20,000 outlets across Senegal alone and 500,000 around the world. The company has more than 300 employees and operates in 60 countries. Wari had revenues of more $150 million last year. Ameth Amar Source: Food Ameth Amar, 66, is one of Senegal’s most prominent and influential business leaders. In 1996, he founded the New African flour mill, a Senegalese industrial company that produces Wheat flour, Livestock feed, Poultry, fish feed and Pasta. Annual revenues are in excess of $130 million and the company employs more than 400 people. Amar owns the company wholly. Follow me on Twitter @MfonobongNsehe. E-mail: mfon.nsehe(at)gmail.com