By Jim Krane In public, Saudi Arabia has been gloating over the spate of anti-government protests in arch-nemesis Iran. Aping President Trump’s opportunistic tweets, Saudi commentators have called the uproar a “fierce blow to the heart of Khomeinism” suggesting that protests had “made Iran boil like it’s on a crater of a volcano” and that “collapse” would be next. In private, Saudi teeth are chattering. The dominant feeling among policymakers must surely be that protests in Iran could be replicated – maybe even on a greater scale – inside Saudi Arabia.    How so? Because Saudi citizens now share many of the same grievances that, in part, pushed their Iranian counterparts into the streets. Namely, both countries have reformed subsidies on energy products and services, replacing cheap energy with small monthly cash handouts. Iran did so in 2010 to the delight of the IMF and Chicago School economists. Iran has kept up payments to families hurt by the loss in energy subsidies. Those monthly payments have since fallen in value, partly due to inflation, from about $40 to $13. News of a further cut in payments was one key factor behind the protests. Saudi Arabia’s recent reforms on energy subsidies are a veritable Xerox of the Iranian reform. Saudi energy prices were raised dramatically across the board. In return, on December 21, Saudi families got their first cash rebate, through the Citizen’s Account program. Payments ranged from a low of $80 to a high of $250. About half of Saudi families got one. Although the Saudi stipends are far higher than the Iranian ones, Saudis still grumbled on Twitter about the payments. To make matters worse, on Jan. 1, less than two weeks after sending rebate checks, Saudi Arabia further raised gasoline prices – more than doubling the price for premium fuel. Two weeks after that, the kingdom imposed a 5% value-added tax on nearly all goods and services sold in the kingdom. The price for a gallon of premium gasoline in the kingdom of oil has jumped from 46 cents in 2015 to 92 cents in 2016 and $2.04 now – before VAT. By contrast, a gallon of premium gasoline in Iran costs a relatively reasonable $1.36. Iran’s president Hassan Rouhani had hoped to raise prices to current Saudi levels by next year, but the unrest now casts doubt on that plan. In both Iran and Saudi Arabia, subsidies have been encouraging consumption of oil, cannibalizing the chief export while increasing local air pollution, traffic congestion and carbon emissions. Many Saudi citizens understand that it is in the national interest to roll back energy subsidies. Still, these sorts of rearrangements of the social contract are unpopular. Taxation, in particular, has often been labeled by scholars as “illegitimate” in the eyes of citizens of an autocratic petro-state. Citizens are supposed to enjoy a lifetime of subsidies and tax-free salaries in exchange for supporting ruling autocrats. Those prohibitions are being revised in the face of new taxes and subsidy retractions. But they remain touchy. My own survey research shows that fully a third of Gulf nationals oppose any sort of increase in their energy prices for any reason, even if given an alternate benefit. Perhaps in recognition that Iran’s troubles could take root in the kingdom, a top headline on Al-Arabiya last week declared that the Saudi government had deposited two billion riyals in its Citizen Account program. This was in preparation for the January installment of cash handouts. In Iran, one of the trigger mechanisms for the unrest was the release of a more-transparent-than-normal budget, which showed $5.3 billion in cuts to the Targeted Subsidies Plan under which 96% of Iranians receive a monthly cash handout. These losses contrasted with big increases in payments to well-connected religious organizations associated with the clerical parts of the Iranian regime. (A Saudi equivalent might be a major increase in oil rents for the royal family.) Naturally, Iranians were not amused. Many revealed their displeasure on public squares and streets. Rather than celebrating these protests, officials in Saudi Arabia and the other five Gulf monarchies should be taking notes. They face a similar fate if they make such changes. Saudi authorities are in the midst of an important restructuring of the economy in face of growing budget deficits in a low oil price environment. Besides winding down subsidies, Riyadh is selling off a piece of Saudi Aramco and pushing unemployed citizens into the private sector. Iran’s subsidy retractions in the past led the way for the Saudi reforms. Iran has not achieved full success, but the Islamic Republic slashed its subsidy tab from 25% of GDP in 2010 to less than 4% last year, a major achievement. Give the Saudis credit for understanding the merits of Iran’s reforms and having the nerve to copy them, despite the discomfiture of taking policy cues from a rival. The Iranian protests ought to serve as a warning to Riyadh that reforms must be phased in gracefully. Shock therapy won’t work in an autocracy. And gloating won’t help. Jim Krane is the Wallace S. Wilson Fellow for Energy Studies at Rice University’s Baker Institute. Follow him on Twitter on @jimkrane   