This article was originally published at Stratfor.com. By Matthew Bey Almost four decades after the toppling of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, a revolutionary ideology continues to underpin the Iranian state. As the years have passed, the relevance of its governing philosophy risks being lost on the country's younger generations, and the internal and external challenges to its government continue to mount. The recent spate of demonstrations that quickly spread across the country highlighted one of the revolutionary state's largest shortcomings: It is a 40-year-old revolution that has not arrived at a sustainable economic model. The protests marked the largest and most widespread demonstrations expressing popular dissatisfaction with Iran's leaders since the 2009 Green Movement, which targeted then-President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and the government. And with chants of "Death to the dictator" referring to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei accompanying the latest round of protests, it is clear that no part of the government had escaped the ire of the demonstrators. Khamenei has kept the fire of the Islamic Revolution alive for nearly 30 years after the death of its founder, Ayatollah Ruholla Khomeini, who died in 1989. But what happens to that fire when Khamenei -- now 78 -- passes the torch to a successor who was not in Khomeini's inner circle in the 1980s? To what extent does the revolutionary spirit still resonate with the nearly 70 percent of Iran's population who were born after the revolution? While the wave of protests appears to have ebbed, their political aftermath could help determine Iran's course and whether the country can change into a post-revolutionary state. It was quickly evident from their political nature that the protests, which first broke out after Friday prayers on Dec. 28 in the conservative stronghold of Mashhad, were unlike others that periodically spring up in Iran. That first demonstration included calls for moderate President Hassan Rouhani to step down amid criticisms of Iran's economic conditions. The initial protests, which appear to have been fomented by prayer leader Ahmad Alamolhoda, followed Rouhani's publication of the country's budget outlining with unprecedented transparency the significant amount of governmental support funneled to many of Iran's cultural institutions -- which are often closely tied to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and its hard-line conservative allies. That disclosure by Rouhani, which represented a move against Iran's bureaucracy of unelected institutions, certainly angered Iran's conservatives and hard-liners. It is unclear what level of encouragement that Alamolhoda, who is the father-in-law of Rouhani's conservative opponent Ebrahim Raisi in last year's presidential elections, may have had from other hard-liners. Raisi's initial statements after the demonstrations targeted Rouhani, suggesting at least tacit support of their initial messages. But best-laid plans, however, often go awry. From marches in one city that focused largely on the president, protests quickly spread and spiraled into a wider display of anti-government anger. By the weekend, protesters had taken to the streets in more than 80 cities in demonstrations appearing to be far more spontaneous than the initial ones in Mashhad. Some of the protests even began to immortalize Reza Shah, who in the first half of the 20th century tried to spark a Kemalist-styled secularist modernization program in Persia before an Anglo-Soviet invasion forced him out. In many respects, Reza Shah's vision for Iran epitomized the antithesis of the one that the Islamic Revolution hoped to achieve. And as the voices criticizing the government became louder, so too did those of the IRGC and hard-line clerics like Raisi in speaking out against the demonstrations. While Rouhani's opponents may have instigated the demonstrations, the way that they spread shows that they were the spark that the slice of Iran's population that had significant economic and political grievances needed to take to the streets. In one of many instances of intragovernmental finger-pointing in the aftermath, Alamolhoda has been summoned by the government to explain his role in the protests. At its heart, Iran's revolutionary ideology can be viewed as several different layers. Underlying them all is Khomeini's concept of velayat-e-faqih, or rule by Shiite jurists. In this structure, the unelected clerical leadership sat just under the supreme leader as the ultimate arbitrators and final decision-makers in Iran's political system. Just below that layer came a populist and nationalist one that largely rejected Western ideals, culture and influence, promising equal treatment for all and populist economic rejuvenation away from the corruption of the imperialist shah and everything he represented. 