In recent weeks, signs of greater inflationary pressures have increased. Although acceleration of inflation is no sure thing, business leaders should be aware of the risk of higher inflation and have contingency plans in place. Here are some items I’ve noticed over the past 30 days (writing on 11/11/2018): Interest rates on 10-year treasury bonds up from 2.39 to 2.55. (FRED database) Gold has increased from $1241 an ounce to $1320. (Kitco) Oil has increased from $57.14 to $63.75(MarketsInsider) None of these measure are causes of inflation, but rather indicators of inflationary expectations or pressures. Monthly data is less pronounced so far, but tending upward. Wage inflation crept up more than usual last month. (Bureau of Labor Statistics). Wage increases are not a cause of inflation, but may be a reflection of excessive stimulus within the economy. The global outlook is being revised upwards by the economists surveyed by FocusEconomics. Business strategy—and especially contingency plans—should reflect the possibility of higher inflation. It’s not a certainty by any means, but definitely a possibility. Here are things to think about. Hesitate to commit to long-term price agreements. Sometimes it’s worthwhile to provide customers with a fixed price, but be cautious right now. If you do commit to a fixed price, make sure it’s a pretty high price. Alternatively, add in a price-adjustment clause that reflects your costs. That may be tied to labor costs, fuel, or other resources used to produce the goods or services you sell. This guarantees to your customers that you won’t gouge them if the market tightens, but protects you from selling at a loss if your costs increase. Look for long-term deals with your own suppliers. If they will commit to today’s prices, great. Be aware, though, that a commitment that turns out to be grossly unprofitable in the future is likely to be litigated. It may still be worthwhile—you’ll probably be able to extract a significant concession in exchange for renegotiating terms. The lesson is that you can’t bank on the supply agreement lasting too long. Finally, have your eyes open to cost changes. I’m hearing from business leaders that they are surprised by how fast wages are rising in some areas. I’ve often said that employees most often quit because of the manager rather than the wage, but sometimes it really is the wage. You don’t have to pay above-market wages to keep employees if your first-level supervisors are on top of their game, but you cannot ignore rising market wages and expect to keep workers. So monitor all of your costs more frequently than you have in the past. The inflationary era of the 1970s was not good for businesses. It would seem that a company could push prices up at the same time as costs rise, but in practice inflation was bad for corporate profits. A good deal of the problem was lagging when price tags could be raised, and then continuing pay raises after the labor market cooled off. Be especially attentive. You might want to develop an economic dashboard that includes key prices for both your products as well as the resources you use.