OPEC is back again, with an extension of its November 2016 accord that – subject to review – will extend its existing production quotas through 2018. The oil market responded by pushing oil prices up quickly and sharply to near $60 at year end. This comes after OPEC promised to crush American fracking in November 2014, although to no significant effect if measured by current levels of U.S. oil production. Then OPEC returned to the oil market as swing producer in November 2016, claiming it was taking back control of oil prices and was committed to “do whatever it takes” to raise oil prices in 2017. We saw West Texas Intermediate sitting at $45 per barrel by June and through the summer. With this latest November 2017 meeting, why does the market believe OPEC can support higher oil prices this year? Their members need the money, after all, to run their kingdoms and socialist governments. And maybe there are reasons to think it could happen: stronger global demand, the return of political risk to oil markets, or a newfound, profit-oriented discipline in the U.S. fracking industry. But more likely, the competitive behavior of the U.S. fracking industry that ruined OPEC’s plans in 2017 is still in play and will quickly pull prices down in 2018. By mid-2018, many analysts, forecasting models and international agencies may find that they bought into another tall tale from OPEC. Fooled again? Shame on them. Whatever It Takes … My September blog post described how OPEC’s 2016 agreement failed, largely due to American fracking. The U.S. fracking industry has changed the face of domestic oil production. This is not the Seven Sisters anymore but many small, competitive oil producers and a low bar to entry, with companies needing only capital, some geology, leases and a service contract to drill. Exploration risk is gone, and increased production is virtually assured once you drill. Despite the smoke and mirrors from the fracking industry, the petroleum engineer and the financial analyst will tell you that the long-run, capital-recovery price of oil from fracking or tar sands is $60-$65 per barrel. However, the industry is heavily subsidized right now, allowing it to operate well below this long-run marginal cost. Capital subsidies come from a world awash in cheap money, and specifically in 2017 from private equity and high-yield markets. Operating subsidies come from depressed oil service and machinery industries, discounting work to keep the doors open while the rig count lingers at less than half its previous peak. These subsidies are a powerful incentive to overproduce. In 2017, the fracking industry tried to use these subsidies to build production quickly, impress the stock market with a growing asset base and cash in through higher equity values. This did not end well, with collective peak-to-trough losses in 2017 equity values of 32% for producers, and 43% oil service suppliers, according to the S&P indexes for Exploration and Production and Oil Services and Machinery. How did this strategy fail? It might work for a few producers, but if everyone jumps in the game, the only important effect is that U.S. oil production rises sharply. Figure 1 shows the big turnaround in domestic oil production between 2011 and 2015, adding 4.1 million barrels per day; this was followed by a fracking bust loss of nearly a million barrels per day by late 2016. But then production turns back up and begins to grow quickly again in October 2016, not coincidentally timed with OPEC’s 2016 promise of higher prices. Part of the 2016 turnaround in the rig count and the stabilizing of U.S. production was just West Texas Intermediate price returning from $30 to near $45 per barrel. But when OPEC announced its return as swing producer in late 2016, it raised price expectations and gave further momentum to oil prices and drilling. Figure 2 shows the forward curve for WTI futures prices just before and just after the OPEC agreement was signed, with price expectations moving from $45 to near $55 per barrel. However, it also shows that by summer, any OPEC optimism had completely washed out of the market. Where did the optimism go? Look back at Figure 1, where U.S. production begins to climb quickly in October 2016 and has continued to climb through the latest available data, in October 2017. By October, these seasonally-adjusted values are just above peak 2015 levels, and OPEC’s best efforts to squeeze out the high-cost producer seem to have backfired on them. It is hard to see how higher prices will cure their whack-a-mole fracking problem. How Is 2018 Different? Several factors might justify current higher oil prices: a stronger global economy, growing political risk, and a new-found discipline in the U.S. fracking industry. The first two are true, but probably not the key to an oil market recovery. The competitive, many player structure of the fracking industry makes the last option – producer discipline – very unlikely. The current forward curve for WTI prices (Figure 3) shows lack of conviction about the durability of current higher prices, casting doubt on whether any fundamental market rebalancing is even in play here. Price starts 2018 at $58 per barrel, and ends the year near $57. But then the near term tightness disappears, and WTI is $54 at the end of 2019, and $52 by year-end 2020. Regarding stronger global growth, it is without doubt a plus for higher oil prices. The global oil market has historically seen annual growth of 1.4 million barrels a day for decades, and this rate has continued from 2014 to the present. The fundamentals of the latest downturn in oil prices have not been about global demand, but about a glut of production from Texas and North Dakota. This overproduction remains the problem OPEC needs to fix. We recently have seen the emergence of significant political and other risks that provide an upside to oil prices that has been missing for several years: major pipeline disruptions, rebel attacks and militant unions in Nigeria, the Kurdish threat in Iraq, and an ongoing financial and political crisis in Venezuela. The return of symmetric risk -- high and low -- is said to support higher prices. But specific threats come and go. I am sure I could quickly think of 100 low-probability events where any one could have a big effect on the oil market. If each had a 1% likelihood in 2018, it means there is a 63% chance at least one of them will happen. And if I thought up 500 events, there is a 99% chance that at least one will happen. The risk is always there, specific disruptive events usually blindside analysts and forecasters and thinking up two or three front-burner issues will not cure this problem. Finally, the fracking industry is said to have foresworn chasing equity gains at the expense of long-term profits. No more leveraging themselves and outspending their cash flows to impress the stock market. Newfound discipline is now the industry watchword after getting burned badly in 2017. What makes this unlikely is the many small firms now in the oil production business, combined with the basic DNA of any competitive industry. Think of it as a cartel with dozens of members instead of OPEC’s current 14, and you get the idea how strong the incentives will be to forego discipline, i.e., cheat. Suppose only 5% of U.S. producers cheat in early 2018, and as a result, they win some nice equity gains in the stock market. The other 95% will quickly pile in behind them. Stockholders and investors will turn on laggard managements, asking why they weren’t in the early 5%. More drilling ensues, production rises, OPEC’s price gains disappear, and oil prices remain capped at a low level. Low prices persist until next November, when OPEC will probably give it another try.