Mergers and acquisitions in the oil and gas exploration and production sector hardly had a break-out year in 2017. According to oil and gas information provider 1Derrick, total U.S. transaction value reached $64 billion, about on par with 2016 and the 2008-2015 average of $69 billion. However, strengthening industry fundamentals (including tightening inventories leading to higher oil prices) and private equity trends (firms committed $11 billion to 63 new companies last year) suggest another round of dealmaking and consolidation is coming, the firm said. “Very few of these new companies have made their first acquisitions,” 1Derrick COO Mangesh Hirve said in a statement. Analysts at energy-focused investment bank Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. agree that the market is ripe for deal activity to accelerate. They think that's especially true in the public markets, where increased trading liquidity along with greater negotiating leverage with service providers, cost synergies and blocking up acreage could lead to higher capital efficiency for development. “We do see value in scale,” they said. Who could be involved in the next wave of M&A activity? TPH analysts put RSP Permian Inc. and Callon Petroleum Co. at the top of their potential consolidation list, even though they believe both companies are “great standalone, well-run businesses." The firm calls RSP Permian a top small- to-medium-cap name for 2018 given that it's expected to generate a lot of growth driven by outperformance in the Delaware Basin. It has a buy rating on the stock, which recently closed at $42.02 per share, at the high end of its 52-week range. TPH also has a buy rating on Callon, which it says has a solid asset base and the potential for net asset value upside. The firm did warn that the stock market likely needs multiple quarters of solid execution for the equity to get back on track. Callon's shares recently closed at $12.82, roughly in the middle of its 52-week range. From a divestiture perspective, TPH analysts think higher oil prices could accelerate non-core transactions at more lofty valuations than previously thought. The companies most likely to pursue such deals? It lists Devon Energy Corp., Continental Resources Inc., QEP Resources Inc., Oasis Petroleum Inc., Newfield Exploration Co., Chesapeake Energy Corp., Apache Corp. and Matador Resources Co. as potentials. TPH does note, however, that investors will continue to press companies to slow acquisitions on higher cost, undeveloped acreage in the Permian. “We believe recent stock price reactions, like that exhibited by OAS [Oasis, whose shares fell on news of such a purchase], could cause others to second guess incremental deals of that nature,” the analysts said. Lilis Energy Inc. is the top takeout candidate from Gabriele Sorbara, a senior equity analyst at Williams Capital Group. The small-cap, pure-play Delaware Basin explorer and producer has more than 15,000 net acres mainly concentrated at the county lines in Winkler/Loving, Texas, and Lea, New Mexico. While the company has had some past management issues (its CEO Avi Mirman resigned last year after allegations of previous stock manipulation), Lilis has showcased some top-tier wells in the Wolfcamp B area, Sorbara says. But the analyst thinks proving up additional zones will be key to driving share outperformance. “We believe recent M&A activity and well results across multiple zones speak to LLEX’s [Lilis’] potential and upside,” he said. Sorbara highlights Oasis’ agreement last month to purchase around 20,300 net acres in the area from EnCap Investments-backed Forge Energy for around $946 million, or $38,200 per undeveloped acre, versus Lilis trading at only $32,100 per acre. Meanwhile, Lilis’ closest neighbor, RSP Permian, trades at $58,000 per undeveloped acre, he said.