Updated at 2:20 pm ET Despite announcing better-than-expected fourth quarter revenue and earnings, and despite efforts by American and Southwest airlines leaders today to calm investors’ fears of a brewing fare war, shares of both carriers – and of all U.S. airlines – continued their now-two-day tumble this morning. United Airlines president Scott Kirby threw investors into a near panic with comments after the bell on Tuesday that made it appear the No. 3 U.S. carrier expects to fight back hard against market encroachments being made by so-called low-cost carriers by aggressively matching their prices and adding capacity. Given the airline industry’s long, bloody history of financially ruinous fare warring, investors, seemingly en masse, issued sell orders over night that took effect Wednesday morning.    As of late morning today, nothing seemed to be turning around that sentiment. That could change as news filters out through the day of American’s top executives’ comments this morning before trading began that were aimed at tamping down fears of a fare wars. Shares of American fell $3.95, at the market’s opening on Wednesday following Kirby’s comments after the market closed on Tuesday. It’s shares then bounced around all day Wednesday within a $1.30range as investors struggled to determine how seriously they should take the threat of a possible fare war in light of Kirby’s surprisingly aggressive comments. But American officials’ efforts to calm investor fears during the company’s fourth quarter/fully year 2017 results conference call with analysts and reporters didn’t seem to work much, at least not in early trading Thursday. It’s shares fell another 4.2%, or $2.21 in the first half hour of trading to $52.48. The impact today on Southwest’s stock was even more pronounced. After opening surprisingly up 1.27% from Wednesday’s close, it dropped 3.83%, or $2.38, in the first half hour of trading today to $59.84. And that followed a fall of 4.64% on Wednesday. Southwest officials will host a call with analysts and reporters at 12:30 pm ET today. Shares of Delta Airlines, the No. 2 U.S. carrier behind American, and of smaller airlines like JetBlue and Alaska Airlines, were down similarly this morning, as were the shares of aggressive Low Cost Carriers Spirit Airlines and Allegiant Travel. American, the world’s largest carrier, reported that surging demand for both passenger travel and cargo carriage - and its increasingly successful efforts to coax passengers into buying travel offerings priced somewhat higher than bare-bones/bottom dollar fares – drove a 5.6% increase in its revenue per available seat mile. That key metric allowed American to bring in $10.6 billion in revenue during the fourth quarter of 2017, up 8.2% from the same period in 2016. It scored that big revenue jump despite adding only 2.5% in capacity, measured in available seat miles. Fourth quarter net profits fell 11% to $258 million vs. 2016’s fourth quarter because of a big jump in oil and fuel prices and higher labor costs. Excluding special items each share of American’s stock earned 95 cents in the quarter, beating analysts’ consensus estimate of 92 cents. American CEO Doug Parker touted his airline’s ability to produce that much profit – and to be able confidently to predict 2018 profits in line with those of 2017 – despite a 40% increase in fuel prices in the last five months of 2017. “Our ability to drive flat earnings (in 2018) despite a 40% increase in what has become our biggest cost item – fuel - is pretty good, I think,” Parker said. And in an effort to quiet concerns about a looming fare ware he added he actually expects prices, on average, to rise, assuming fuel prices remain constant. “If oil stays where it is today I believe that fares are too low for those oil prices and, over time, you’ll likely see fares adjust (upward),” Parker said. While refusing repeatedly to “opine on competitors’ plans and comments’ he also urged analysts and reporters – and through them, investors – to more carefully examine where American, in particular, plans to add new capacity this year. On 47 of the 52 new routes it has announced for 2018 American will simply be connecting cities it already serves to hubs it currently does not fly to from those cities. For example, he said Oklahoma City always has been a strong marketing for American in large part of its proximity to American’s huge hub at Dallas-Fort Worth. Now American will launch service from Oklahoma City to its Philadelphia hub, building on already-existing market strengths by creating newer or better connection opportunities for travelers wishing to fly between Oklahoma City and cities beyond the Philadelphia hub, including European cities. Southwest's CEO, Gary Kelly, also was cautious about addressing United's plans to compete with low cost carriers' fare prices and to deploy significant new capacity to fend off low cost carriers incursions in its markets. But he was a bit more confrontational about it than American's Parker. "Added capacity definitely will dilute some traffic," Kelly admitted, but addressing fundamental differences in the way Southwest, the godfather of low cost carriers whose costs, and fares, have risen in recent years, operations and the way conventional higher cost carriers like United, American and Delta operate. "We focus on nonstop, low fare traffic. A high cost legacy carrier does not. There are many, many historic examples where we might have a certain share of seats in a market but a significantly higher share of the passengers in that market because (conventional airlines) don't want to choke off the opportunity to carry higher fare paying customers. "So will (United's competitive plans) impact us? Yes. Will it harm Southwest Airlines?" he added. "Well, we should always bee humble, and be respectful of our competitors, and we are in this case. But we have the tools to continue to be able to perform very well. I will remind you that 10 years ago we were barely starting in Denver (a United hub). Now we are the No. 1 carrier in that market." Kelly also noted that United, like the other big conventional airlines, lost some market to low cost carriers over the previous ten years as they all struggled financially and went through both mergers and bankruptcies to stave off financial collapse. "So they may be trying to reclaim some of what they gave up now that we're in good times again. But I think that will be a very, very hard battle for them." Southwest, headquartered in Dallas, just 15 miles from American’s headquarters in Fort Worth but in many respects a very different kind of airline, also reported today that it earned $1.89 million, or $3.18 per share in the fourth quarter. That’s a huge jump from the $522 million and 84 cents per share it earned in the same quarter in 2016, but most of that gain was the result of a huge tax benefit. Still, excluding the tax items, Southwest’s revenue grew a strong 3.9% to $5.27 billion in 2017’s fourth quarter. Also excluding one-time items the airline earned 77 cents a share, a penny higher than analysts’ consensus expectation. Kelly, in a statement, emphasized that Southwest’s continued acceptance of new aircraft from Boeing 2018 will be used mainly to replace older aircraft and to grow in existing rather than new markets. He did however, announce plans to begin service at Everett, WA, in the booming far north suburbs of Seattle, where an airport long used mainly by Boeing, which builds airplanes there, is being upgraded to handle a small number of passenger flights each day. It is expected to serve as an alternative to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport located well south of Seattle and half way to Tacoma. Both highway congestion in the Seattle metropolitan area and practical constraints on Southwest's ability to grow at Seattle-Tacoma Airport because of the unavailability of additional gates also are driving Southwest's decision to launch service at Everett later this year. Both Alaska Airlines and its Horizon Air subsidiary have announced plans to begin serving Everett, as has United. Parker also sought to calm investor fears of a potential fare war by noting that “Based on the current outlook and our commercial initiatives and objectives, our goal remains to achieve positive unit revenue growth in 2018, year-over-year.” 