The beginning of the year is a good time for investors to evaluate their investments and rebalance their portfolios for the coming year. As they get their stock/bond percentages back in alignment, many want to know what professional investors are doing with their portfolios. Neil Hennessy, the chief investment officer and portfolio manager of Hennessy Funds (HNNA) recently gave his market outlook for 2018. As of Oct. 31, 2017, seven of Hennessy's 14 funds were rated with four stars or better by Morningstar. Hennessy said that even though the Bull Market is in its ninth year he expects it to continue throughout 2018. With gross domestic product growing at an annual rate of 3.2% in the third quarter of 2017, Hennessy predicts growth of 2.8% for the fourth quarter and 2.5% for 2018. His reasons for this are corporate profits are still strong and will continue as they see relief from regulations and healthcare costs. And the recent tax cut should have a big effect too. He also thinks small interest rate increases won't hurt the economy or profits.    Hennessy pointed out that since 2010 there have been 18 market downturns in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. During that time, only four of those downturns have hit the definition of a market correction, a decline of 10% or more. That last one was a 12.6% drop between November 2015 and February 2016. With the Dow now hitting 26,000, Hennessy predicts it will soon approach 30,000. "I'm still waiting for euphoria, which is not present in this market," he said, " so there's still room to go higher." He bases this on moderate inflation, interest rates being already priced into the market, a labor market that continues to improve, buoyant consumer confidence, companies seeing cash totals rise on their balance sheets, falling consumer and corporate debt, and stable oil prices. The Hennessy Cornerstone Mid Cap 30 Fund (HFMDX), one of the firm's flagship funds, seeks long-term growth of capital by investing in 30 mid-cap companies. It screens for undervalued stocks with above-average growth potential. In 2017, the fund returned 20.5% compared with the Russell Midcap Index's 18.5%. The S&P 500 earned 21.8% last year. Over the past 10 years, the fund has returned 9.27% on an annualized basis vs. the Russell Midcaps’ 9.11% and the S&P 500's 8.5%. The fund charges an expense ratio of 1.35%. The fund rebalanced its portfolio at the end of the year by increasing its consumer discretionary allocation from seven to 10 stocks. It now holds three homebuilders, three gaming stocks, and four in the auto and auto components sector. It holds no retail, apparel or media stocks. Hennessy said casino stocks have performed very well, posting double-digit revenue gains, and beating analyst expectations of 14% revenue growth. The fund also increased its industrial stock portfolio by four stocks. Industrial companies remain flush with cash, which could mean capital expenditures into new, efficient equipment to increase productivity. Hennessy said "accommodative monetary and fiscal policies could help boost economic activity and demand for industrial goods. Defense spending could further increase opportunities for the sector." The fund also sold its entire technology portfolio of nine stocks, which had been its largest sector holding in 2016.   