Consumers riding high the past few years on cheap gasoline could find themselves drifting back to earth in the months ahead, the AAA cautions. As it stands, the national average for regular unleaded currently sits at $2.55 a gallon, which is two cents higher than it was a week ago, a nickel higher than on January 1, and a full 24 cents more than it was this week in 2017. Residents of Florida saw gas prices shoot up by nine cents in just the last seven days to an average $2.54. The most expensive gallon of petrol hails from California, where drivers pay an average $3.21 a gallon to sit in freeway traffic, which is a 42-cent jump over the last 12 months. By comparison, the cheapest gasoline in the U.S. can be found in Texas at an average $2.32 a gallon, but that’s still 21 cents higher than it was at this point in 2017. Of course, this is all still far from petroleum’s historic high of $4.11 a gallon, which was the national average in July 2008, but an AAA expert cautions that signs point to higher gas prices over the coming months.    “For consumers, the question is how high are gas prices going to go in 2018,” says AAA spokesperson Jeanette Casselano. “Since 2014, gas prices decreased as much as 20 cents in the first three weeks of the year. This year, gas prices are five cents more than on January 1 of this year, a possible indication that prices in 2018 will likely be more expensive than last year.” Domestic crude oil production is partly to blame – the Energy Information Administration says it dropped by 290,000 barrels during the first week of the year, which is the largest dip since the end of last year’s hurricane season. While production took a blip upward over the past week, the number of active oil rigs in the U.S. declined by five during the same period and now stands at 747. And demand remains strong, as U.S. motorists continue migrating from sedans to SUVs; while these are not the gas-guzzling truck-based models from the 1990’s, neither are they as fuel-frugal as same-sized passenger cars. Despite a plethora of new and improved models coming to market boasting improved fuel economy virtually across the board, the national gas mileage of all new vehicles sold in the U.S. remains unchanged over the past year at an average 25.2 mpg, according to the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute. Follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Pinterest. Also on Forbes... 