Thirty-year-old Mike Katchen knew that Millennials needed a different kind of investment company than the previous generation. He and his two friends, Brett Huneycutt and Rudy Adler, had just sold their Y Combinator startup, 1000Memories, to Ancestry.com and couldn’t find an investment company that didn’t require quarterly face-to-face meetings and other archaic trappings in order to discuss their money.  That’s why they founded Wealthsimple in September 2014. Based in Toronto, they found that there was a ripe market for digital investment solutions that catered directly to Millennials. Launched in 2017 in the U.S. and the U.K., Wealthsimple has quickly taken the digital investment space by storm with their anytime one-on-one financial advice, phone-based investment control, and even a “Money Diaries” series featuring celebs (Anthony Bourdain, Kylie Jenner and Woody Harrelson have all participated, among others) and other interesting people talking candidly about their money anxieties.  I recently sat down with Katchen to find out more about his thoughts on Canada vs. the U.S., Bitcoin and more.  How is the Canadian startup scene different than Silicon Valley?    It’s an exciting time for startups in Canada. Companies like Shopify and Hootsuite have made a name for themselves internationally, and we’re starting to see the ecosystem here come of age. Toronto was named the most diverse city in the world, which creates an exciting pool of talent -- both people who are already here, and people from other parts of the world who see Toronto as a place that will welcome them. I started my career with McKinsey in Toronto, then moved to San Francisco to work with my Wealthsimple co-founders Brett Huneycutt and Rudy Adler on their Y Combinator company 1000Memories. I loved San Francisco for its energy, drive, and big ambitious thinking, while I love Toronto and Canada for its diversity and supportive community. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau visited our office. We wouldn't get that kind of recognition somewhere else. How does Millennials’ understanding of investing differ from previous generations? I’m a Millennial myself, and we came of age during the financial crisis. We've witnessed serious breaches of consumers’ trust by large financial institutions, so we don't have that inherent trust in big banks that maybe a previous generation did. Partly because of this skepticism, we really value transparency in investing, but also in all of our services. We want to know who we're paying, how much we're paying, and what we're paying for. We also understand how technology can be used to make our lives easier. We expect to be able to manage our money from our phone, the same way we can order a ride home, buy groceries or do anything else. Meeting a financial advisor for lunch once a quarter is not something most of us are interested in. What is your stance on Bitcoin as an investment? My stance is the same for Bitcoin as for any other volatile investment. It’s risky. There’s no way to know what will happen, and so investors should limit exposure if they want to manage the level of risk in their portfolio. A rule of thumb is to have no more than 5% of your liquid assets in “play money,” and be prepared if it goes to zero. Our portfolios use a passive investment strategy -- buy the market and hold it long-term -- because we know markets tend to increase in value over time. Smart investing is boring, but it works. How are you differentiating your brand in the digital investments space? Most investment firms, and really, most financial services companies, don’t have a brand that people can relate to. We made the decision early on to invest heavily in building a brand that humanizes financial services, which we think is a really big opportunity. Being human is central to our brand. We find that most traditional investment companies, and even the new players, are really good at talking to you about the mechanics of investing, like how oil prices and interest rates should effect next quarter. But the entire reason we exist, and why the investment industry exists, is to help you live the life you want. Our brand focuses on the “why” of investing over the “how.” That’s why we do things like our Money Diary series where we speak with interesting people about their personal stories around money, to help demystify talking about money and show that everyone has concerns and anxieties around it. You’re backed by Power Financial rather than a VC. How did the relationship come about? I met Paul Desmarais III, the third generation of the Power family, early on when Wealthsimple was a very new company. Power saw an opportunity to reach a new demographic and over the course of our relationship, they’ve continued to invest in the vision at Wealthsimple both financially and strategically. Our relationship with Power has really given us the best of both worlds: we have the independence to operate like a startup and be really quick and agile, but with the trust that comes with the backing of a large financial company. You’ve had celebrities ranging from Anthony Bourdain to Kylie Jenner participate in your “Money Diaries” series – what are the most common money challenges people share? We’ve had all sorts of people, from celebrities like Jon Hamm and Woody Harrelson, to a nun who took a vow of poverty, tell us their stories for our Money Diaries series. In our latest ad campaign, Investing for Humans, we had director Errol Morris interview regular people about their money thoughts, fears, anxieties and dreams, totally unscripted and unrehearsed. What we’ve found is that everyone, no matter how much or how little of it they have, fundamentally has the same anxiety: that they’re doing money wrong. That there is something better and smarter than they should be doing, and that maybe everyone else is doing, but they just don’t know enough. We really exist to close that gap. We want to help people do the smartest thing with their money, and feel confident and secure about it.   