A rise in the dollar is one thing, but Jeremy Corbyn as U.K. Prime Minister? Byron Wien, vice chairman of Blackstone Advisory Partners of Blackstone, has published his 10 "surprises" for the year ahead and among them is "populism, tribalism and anarchy" around the world. This could see extreme left-winger Corbyn at the helm of the U.K. government and more disruption in Catalonia. However, it is unlikely to benefit Donald Trump, says Wien, with the Republicans potentially losing control of both the Senate and the House of Representatives in the November election. “Voters feel disappointed that many promises made during Trump’s presidential campaign were not implemented in legislation and there is a growing negative reaction to his endless Tweets. The mid-term election turns out to be a referendum on the Trump Presidency.” Trump’s resilient support in America’s rust belt would have to wane, but this is not implausible. Wein’s other "surprises" include a resurgence in the Dollar on the back of improving U.S. economic growth. This may exceed 3% and should create renewed interest in owning Dollar-denominated assets, he says. However, U.S. markets are likely to correct – by around 10%, he believes, partly because of higher interest rates, though improving earnings will temper the fall. A key message is that markets are currently concerned enough about inflation. Wien suggests that continued world GDP growth will put pressure on commodity prices, while tight labour markets in the industrialised countries will finally create wage increases. The lack of wage growth in spite of high employment has been confounding economists, but this may shift eventually. With higher inflation, interest rates begin to rise. Wien believes the Federal Reserve may increase short-term rates four times in 2018 – the market is currently suggesting three rises - and the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield will move toward 4%. High yield spreads widen, causing concern in the equity market. Wien agrees with BlackRock Vice Chairman Philip Hildebrand that trading relationships will be vitally important for the health of the global economy. On balance, Wien believes both NAFTA and the Iran agreement endure in spite of Trump railing against them. Trump will be swayed by the loss of American jobs should NAFTA end, and will eventually need to side with his allies over the Iran agreement. At the same time, Trump may rue not signing the Trans-Pacific Partnership as Chinese influence grows on the world stage. For its part, China finally decides enough is enough on North Korea. A nuclear capability in the hands of an unpredictable leader on its border is not tolerable even though North Korea is a communist buffer between itself and democratic South Korea. Wien believes this could see China cutting off all fuel and food shipments to North Korea, which agrees to suspend its nuclear development program but not give up its current weapons arsenal. In the meantime Xi Jinping moves to tackle China’s credit problems, limiting business borrowing even if it means slowing the economy down and creating fewer jobs. Finally, Wien is bullish on the oil price, believing West Texas Intermediate Crude is likely to move above $80 on the back of continued world growth and unexpected demand from developing markets, together with disappointing hydraulic fracking production, diminished inventories, OPEC discipline and only modest production increases from Russia, Nigeria, Venezuela, Iraq and Iran.