At the start of each year, for over 3 decades, the editorial team at MoneyShow.com surveys the nation's leading newsletter advisors for their favorite stocks for the year ahead. Ten experts chose high-yielding stocks in sectors ranging from energy and telecom to REITs and utilities. Brad Thomas, Forbes Real Estate Investor Uniti Group, previously known as Communications Sales & Leasing, still derives significant revenues from the April 2015 spin-off of assets from Windstream WIN +0%  As Uniti CEO Kenny Gunderman explained on a recent earnings call, “after a quiet start to develop our strategy and funnel, we rapidly evolved the company over the last 15 months from primarily a single tenant, one-property landlord to servicing nearly 15,000 customer connections through three diverse, but complementary business segments.”    Uniti has invested over $1.5 billion in seven acquisitions to grow pro-forma adjusted EBITDA by $120 million or 18%. Top-line revenue has grown 35% to over $950 million on a pro basis and Uniti has diversified revenues from non-Windstream customers from 2% to 30%. Fiber is the mission-critical infrastructure element that will fuel both wireless and wireline bandwidth growth. Demand for wireless bandwidth exceeds current supply. Uniti Group has evolved into a more diversified model with attractive return profiles across all asset classes. In summary, Uniti Group provides investors with outsized risk, but for a higher risk investor, there is enhanced opportunity. We maintain a speculative Buy rating as we believe that the company has the potential to return +30% in 2018. Disclosure: I am long Uniti Group.   Tim Plaehn, The Dividend Hunter Through 2017, MLP sector market values declined sharply even as business fundamentals continued to improve. And 2018 should be the year when investors realize very attractive returns from the quality companies in the sector.  Energy Transfer ETE +0%  The company owns and operates an extensive network of natural gas and crude oil pipelines, terminals and processing facilities. Energy Transfer Partners owns assets in all the major oil and gas energy plays. In recent years the company has invested heavily in new growth projects and will have $10 billion worth of those projects coming online between mid-2017 and the end of 2019. As the projects start to earn revenue, the Energy Transfer Partners distributions will be covered by free cash flow and continue to grow. In the four quarters through the 2017 third quarter, EBITDA and distributable cash flow have climbed steadily higher. Market participants are primarily worried about ETP’s large debt load, which has grown to fund the growth CapEx and currently stands at over $34 billion. Management has stated that they will not need to access the capital markets in 2018. With new projects coming online, EBITDA growth will quickly bring down the debt/EBITDA ratio. With a current 13% yield, the market is pricing ETP with the expectation of a dividend reduction. Management is determined to continue and even grow the current distribution rate. Once investors see the current payout is stable and well covered by cash flow, the ETP share price will rise to bring the yield down to as low as 8%. To get the yield down to that level, the share price would need to go close to double. Bret Owens, Contrarian Income Report Omega Healthcare Industries recently raised its dividend for the 21st straight quarter. The stock now pays an amazing 9.4%. This is only the third time in the last ten years that OHI has paid this much. Each of the last two occasions were ideal times to buy. Is this time different? A deadbeat operator is to blame (or thank) for the current sale. It’s so late on rent payments that OHI is exploring moving the operator’s properties to a better partner. The rest of Omega Healthcare’s portfolio shows steady occupancy. Which indicates this is an operator-specific problem, and not a broader OHI problem. The big picture for skilled nursing facility (SNF) demand looks great. The industry, which is actually seeing supply decrease as demand increases, is projected to be in a supply deficit within the decade. And while investors fret about bad apple operators, they’re also missing the fact that total patient days at SNFs are increasing and are projected to accelerate in the coming year. Plus, CEO Taylor Pickett and his team have managed these types of uncertainties successfully for his entire tenure (as evidenced by their stock’s amazing 5,000%+ returns over Taylor’s 16 years at the helm.) Omega Healthcare is a great buy today. David Dierking, ETF Focus With interest rates expected to head higher in 2018, it’s assumed that fixed income would be a less than ideal place to be invested. Junk bonds, however, tend to behave more like stocks than bonds. Their value tends to be judged more by their financial strength as opposed to the direction of interest rates. Junk bonds have done fairly well in 2017, but a strong economic environment coupled with the tailwinds of corporate tax reform could lead to further gains in 2018. An interesting choice could be the VanEck Vectors Fallen Angel High Yield Bond ETF. This fund is filled with bonds that are currently rated as junk but were investment-grade when they were issued. The Fallen Angel Bond ETF targets those names that could be in a position to rebound financially and regain their investment-grade status. The names in this portfolio, such as Transocean, Freeport-McMoRan and ArcelorMittal , could particularly benefit from the tax reform package that was recently passed. A lower corporate tax rate could improve the balance sheet strength and credit quality of these companies. Not surprisingly, nearly half of the portfolio is invested in the beleaguered energy and materials sectors and offers a dividend yield of almost 5%. Russ Kaplan, Frank, Fox & Hoagstrom’s Heartland Advisor Shortly after Alexander Graham Bell invented the telephone he started AT&T T +0%  With the proposed takeover of Time Warner TWX +0%  This takeover is part of an evolving trend that is transforming AT&T from a pure telephone company into a media company and media provides an opportunity for greater long-term profits. AT&T is also a profitable company. With all of the changes in media, AT&T has a return on equity of 14.5%. The stock is cheap at a recent price of around $38. It has traded as high as $43.9 per share and we believe that AT&T will surpass this level in the near future. A major reason for this selection is AT&T’s exceptional yield of 5.26%. One thing a stock can do that a fixed income can’t is provide an increase in the dividend. AT&T has raised its dividend every year since 2001. This is a tradition with the company and this growing dividend will probably increase every year in the next several years. This makes AT&T an excellent choice for those investors who are interested in income. Bryan Perry, Cash Machine Following a soft year of performance in 2017, I’m upping my exposure to domestic energy infrastructure where there are more favorable tailwinds, both politically and structurally. MPLX LP is an MLP formed out of Marathon Petroleum MPC +0%  Like many oil and gas companies, there are numerous tax advantages to carving out the most capital-intensive infrastructure assets of total operations that provide a home for future acquisitions and properties of the same structure. MPLX LP owns, operates, develops and acquires midstream energy infrastructure assets. As of December 31, 2015, the company’s assets included approximately 2,900 miles of crude oil and refined product pipelines across nine states. The partnership is in the midst of a period of strong distribution growth that should fuel increased income and capital gains. The partnership forecast a double-digit distribution growth rate for 2018. Energy MLPs lagged in 2017, but in my view will lead in 2018. Adrian Day, The Global Analyst  Ares Capital ARCC +0%  There is concern that rising interest rates will hurt the sector, but what is important for BDCs is the spread over their cost of capital and the returns they can generate. Ares has about 90% of its outstanding loans with floating rates, so as the Federal Reserve raises interest rates, their returns also go up. Ares is the largest and one of the most conservative of the BDC sector. It also has among the best returns over the years and yet is one of the cheapest right now. There is a reason. One year ago, Ares completed the purchase of American Capital, the second largest publicly traded BDC. It was a good acquisition, buying the assets at a discount. But American Capital had a relatively low-yielding portfolio with many equity positions, so Ares had to add on the share count without the revenue. Over the past year, it has been steadily rolling over the Ares Capital low-yielding assets into the more typical high-yielding BDC loan. As Ares digests its massive acquisition, we will see confidence in the dividend return, and eventually a return to steady dividend increases and bonus dividends that we saw before the acquisition. I do not think we should expect an increase in the coming year, but equally, I do not expect a dividend cut. At current prices, the yield is 9.7%, an unheard of yield for a conservative company in today’s environment. Grab it while you can. Gordon Pape, The Income Investor  Enbridge Inc., our top conservative idea for 2018, has always been a highly dependable utility stock, with steady annual dividend increases and a gradual gain in share price.  However, the company — a Canada-based firm focused on energy transportation, distribution, and generation — took a hit in 2017 after completing the purchase of Houston’s Spectra Energy SE +0%  Investors became concerned about the stock dilution that flowed from the deal, the doubling of the company’s long-term debt, and disappointing financial results. The stock fell from a high of $44.52 in late January to a low of $34.39 in November. The company responded by raising its dividend by 10%, effective next February, and announcing asset sales and the issuing of new shares to strengthen the balance sheet. The stock bounced back but is still well below its 52-week high. With a yield of 5.4%, Enbridge, which trades on both the NYSE and the Toronto exchange, offers excellent cash flow and modest capital gains potential for conservative investors. Ben Reynolds, Sure Dividend Energy Transfer Partners is the largest energy MLP. It operates more than 71,000 miles of natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude and refined products pipelines across 36 states. Energy Transfer Partners has declined precipitously in price over the last several years, following a corresponding decline in the price of crude oil. Now that oil prices are rebounding, the company is well positioned to deliver outsized returns to its investors, driven by its double-digit distribution yield. While Energy Transfer Partners’ financial performance is not tied directly to oil prices, the partnership will still participate in some of this upside because rising oil prices will increase the transportation volumes of its customers, which in turn raises the MLP’s revenue. Secondly, Energy Transfer Partners has been investing heavily in its business even though oil prices have remained depressed for so long. This has allowed the company to acquire quality assets at bargain prices. To sum up, there’s a lot to like about Energy Transfer Partners. The company appears extremely undervalued. If operations improve, this could catalyze the company to return closer to its historical average valuation multiple and generate additional returns for shareholders on top of growth and the company’s double-digit distribution yield. Roger Conrad, Conrad’s Utility Investor  AES AES +0%  Comparable figures for the Dow Jones Utility Average are 19.1 and 18.7 times. The dividend is also nearly 5 percent, well above the DJUA’s 3.3 percent. That’s despite a superior rate of growth: The company boosted its payout by 8.3 percent in mid-December. Investors haven’t had any trouble recently buying below our buy target of $15. The last time the stock approached that level was in late 2014. We believe AES’ steep discount to its sector will narrow sharply in 2018, igniting powerful gains even as higher priced utilities tread water at best. The primary reasons for the discount are investor concerns about near-term challenges facing the company, including completing a power plant in Chile that forced management to fire the lead contractor, regulatory uncertainty in Ohio and exposure to economic and political turbulence in Brazil. That’s caused many investors to pay short shrift to AES’ progress executing a multi-year plan to reduce operating costs and risk, boost its balance sheet to investment grade metrics and invest heavily in new energy. The sale of the company’s Philippines business announced in December advances all three goals, with management stating the $1.05 billion in proceeds will allow it to “achieve investment grade metrics” in 2019, one year earlier than previous guidance. During President Trump’s tour of Asia last year, AES signed a letter of intent to build a 2,250-megawatt power station and LNG (liquefied natural gas) import terminal in Vietnam. The project would provide 5 percent of the country’s energy needs. Ultimately, the surest catalyst for a higher share price is simply AES executing on its growth plans in 2018. But we also look for progress on the Chilean plant, resolution of uncertainty at the DP&L unit in Ohio (now on S&P Watch Positive) and better conditions in Brazil to salve investors’ current concerns and set the stage for a market-beating run in the next year.   