I recently had a conversation with Dr. Bluford Putnam, managing director and chief economist of the CME Group and an expert in leading economic analysis on global markets. Recently, his research has been focusing on identifying emerging trends of global financial conditions and forecasting impacts of economic factors. Dr. Putnam and I have been collaborating on understanding the current market environment as it relates to the phenomenon of falling market volatility in the face of rising market uncertainty. Previous year volatility, as measured by the standard deviation of daily market price movements in equities, bonds and other asset classes, remained at very low levels compared to historical norms. Yet, at the same time, uncertainty was exceptionally high concerning a wide-ranging array of potentially market-moving events which were often in the daily news and getting considerable attention. The co-existence of relatively low volatility and high uncertainty presented an interesting conundrum. Equity markets rallied by 22% in 2017 benefiting from unrealized political volatility. For example, the actual reaction post the U.S. election resulted in increased investor sentiment. Europe maintained stability despite Brexit and, as a result of a pro-European outcome to the French election, with Macron becoming Ppesident of France. The militant threats between North Korea’s Kim Jong-un and U.S. President Trump remained contained and did not create a long lasting risk off sentiment. Thus, volatility continued to plummet. Katina Stefanova: Dr. Putnam, do we finally see a turn in volatility in global markets and could that be beneficial to macro investors? Dr. Bluford Putnam: In 2018, the list of potential volatility-inducing questions remains long. Would the future course of fiscal policy in the U.S. involve a big corporate tax cut or not? How would trade relationships around the world change as the U.S. pulled back from its former world leadership role? Would the Brexit negotiations hang over the U.K. economy like Damocles’ sword for years to come? The financial path of Saudi Arabia, the largest oil producer in the Middle East, depended in no small way on how the initial public offering for Aramco goes in 2018, which in turn depended on the price of oil. How would Saudi oil production strategy change before and after the pending IPO? The Federal Reserve embarked on incremental plans to shrink its balance sheet with the European Central Bank followed with adjustments to its asset buying programs. How will asset classes that positively benefited from QE respond to the unwinding? Thus, I do expect and we already see a rise in volatility at the beginning of 2018. For example, developed world Bond markets are beginning to react to tighter Central Bank policy. Stefanova: How do you define market uncertainty? Dr. Putnam: Market uncertainty is not a standard investment term. That being said, you and I have been doing research on how to standardize the measurement of uncertainty. Market uncertainty means that the probability distributions of potential market outcomes are decidedly not normal, often highly skewed, and sometimes even bi-modal, which means that generating returns gets markedly more difficult for investors, if uncertainty becomes realized in market pricing. Stefanova: Yes, investors are faced not only with the short-term questions that worry markets. Major structural long-term drivers such as technology disruption and its impact on structural unemployment, disinflation, and reshaping of entire markets, anti-globalization, demographic changes, migration and societal transformation. The net is that global markets in the “non-linear age” are impacted by greater exposure to social and political risks than in the 1950-2010 post WWII environment. One might think all of these uncertainties would have been associated with increased market volatility, especially in equity and bond prices, but it did not happen in 2016 or 2017. Why do you think that is the case? Dr. Putnam: To appreciate what events might trigger volatility, we need to examine the complex relationship between uncertainty and volatility. The long-term drivers of uncertainties There are three drivers that have muted the market impact of uncertainty, for now. First, the dramatic increase in global liquidity from the U.S., Europe and China propelled a continuous rise in asset prices. Second, the increased popularity and subsequent increased investor allocation to long-only passive vehicles, specifically ETFs. Third, some of the drivers of uncertainty are slow moving and the markets inherently are inertia driven, even though virtually everyone is aware that long-term changes are afoot. Then, a catalyst suddenly changes the consensus view of reality. Let’s take a few examples – from Bond markets, technology, social perceptions, and corporate change – to illustrate the analytical challenge. Let’s take the example of how technological innovation is dramatically changing the world of oil production: From the demand-side in the last decade, the emergence of hydraulic fracturing methods of production dramatically altered production patterns. With the changing role of US shale oil production, it is unlikely that OPEC will have the same ability as in the 1970-2010 period to independently manipulate oil prices. In the 2020s, the disruptive change may appear from the demand side of the equation. Three quarter of demand for refined oil is driven by transportation. Technological change may dampen demand for oil as transportation fuel efficiency makes great leaps forward, and further technological innovations in alternative energy sources are likely to put continuous pressure on global oil prices and make traditional oil valuation models unreliable. It is obvious that underlying fundamentals have changed; however, it is not so obvious when and how risk management approaches will adjust thus creating market uncertainty. Stefanova: Another driver of market uncertainty is that the developed world is a major contributor to global instability. The widening income gap creates large social impacts, resulting in the potential for resource misallocation. In the long term, a substantial segment of the population will lose confidence in government, eroding social cohesion. In fact, the current wealth gap in the US is at the same level as the time of the robber barons in the 20s and 30s. When the income inequality gap is as high as it currently is, the problem is no longer an economic one but a market problem. Alternative political systems are no longer out of the question, with social unrest laying rise to leaders being elected on a platform of debt-amnesty. The impact on markets could be tremendous. Dr. Putnam: I agree. Given the structural shift in our society and technology, the co-existence of low volatility, and high uncertainty is likely the quiet before the storm. Rising uncertainty creates opportunity for active investors. Risk management and portfolio construction in particular will become increasingly critical. Based on our research, we have identified a couple of methodologies for a time of rising uncertainty: First, a more sophisticated use of options can help mitigate event risks. On a basic level, options strategies are especially well-suited for managing the risks of uncertainty even when volatility is low. As uncertainty rises, so does risk, even if the probability is low, of a large, quick change in market prices. This price gap risk (up or down) is not the same as volatility. Traditional, simple options pricing models, such as the original Black-Scholes options pricing model, assume price gap risk does not exist – allowing for a clean interpretation of implied volatility. This approach does not work well in rising uncertainty conditions when event risk generates more highly skewed and sometimes bi-modal probability distributions. Second, utilizing thematic correlations as a forward-looking view of risk vs. static correlations for portfolio construction helps in an environment of uncertainty. When “Black Swan” types of events occur, intra-asset class correlations spike, which illustrates the interconnectedness of securities with similar risk characteristics even if their cash flow sources are strikingly different. A recent example from 2016 is Brexit. The pound crashed leading to an emerging market FX sell-off. Meanwhile, the dollar rally impacted the ability of emerging markets to pay off U.S. dollar-denominated debt. In this case, for a short period of time, uncertainty led to risk aversion, with a larger proportion of investors seeking a flight to safety. It is possible that 2018 is the year that uncertainty begins to further materialize in markets leading to rising volatility. Economic growth around the world remains strong, but inequality and technological innovation are likely to eventually create unprecedented shifts in the market. Just think about the meteoric impact of digital currencies in the last year. Investors need to remain flexible in their view of the future and pay careful attention to portfolio construction and hedging vs. concentrated bets. 