To paraphrase Oscar Wilde, a decline one year can look like misfortune, when it runs into a second year, it can start to look like carelessness. The Dollar declined against most major currencies in 2017, but now it is moving into a second year and investors are starting to worry that it may be more than a simple readjustment. That the Dollar is down against every major currency suggests it is a dollar problem, rather than strength elsewhere. After all, even the unloved UK pound has managed a rally against the Greenback, hitting its highest post-Brexit level this week. This has not gone unnoticed. The ‘death of the Dollar’ is being widely discussed by economists and policymakers alike. There are a number of short-term factors: There is the fear of a US government shutdown if the spending bill isn’t passed by midnight tonight. This would be the first government shut-down since 2013 and would see government services frozen. Then there is the issue of whether the US economy is over-heating. There’s a pick up in core inflation even though high employment levels haven’t fed through to wage growth (they still might). The stock market looks pretty toppy and seems to be factoring in some butch fourth quarter earnings. Then, of course, there’s all the general concerns about the general sanity and competence of the President. Of course, there is an argument that it is all part of the plan. The Dollar has been dropping since April 2017, after Trump told the Wall Street Journal: "I think our dollar is getting too strong, and partially that's my fault because people have confidence in me. But that's hurting -- that will hurt ultimately." The dollar had hit its highest level in 13 years shortly after Trump won the election. The worry is that there is more at work than this, that the Dollar’s decline is not a two or three year phenomenon, or a response to the weakness of the present administration, or the over-heating of the economy. The worry is that it is a response to a fundamental reshaping of the world order, a move from a world led politically and economically by the US, to one led by China. This shift is being accelerated by the increasing isolationism of the US government. Many of these arguments are discussed here. In many ways, this is easy to dismiss. Relatively little global trade is done in Chinese Yuan and if there is a rebalancing it is far more likely to be the Euro that benefits in the short-term. The US is still the dominant global power on almost any measure. However, the vultures are circling. The US Dollar’s position as a global currency has made sanctions more punishing for some emerging markets, and they are keen to get their revenge. Much depends on the oil market - were Saudi Arabia to start trading in Yuan, Opec may follow and it would be a different picture for the Dollar. There is the thorny issue of China’s support for US debt. It emerged last week that senior government officials in Beijing had recommended slowing or halting the purchase of US treasuries.Yes, Chinese officials subsequently denied it, but if you were the largest major holder of an asset - China has around $1.2tn of treasuries, according to official data – you’d hardly admit to wanting to sell out. China has been funding the US deficit, by and large, and if it decides to pare back its support, the US Dollar is in a spot of bother. Tom Beckett, chief investment officer at Psigma, says China and Russia are trying to de-dollarize their economies by strategies such as the accumulation of higher gold reserves. This makes sense at a time when trade is less and less with the US, and more and more between emerging markets themselves. Economists have suggested that the ambitious infrastructure Belt and Road initiative is about more than just trading routes, but about challenging US hegemony and the dominance of the Dollar. One other point to consider is what would drive the Dollar the other way? Tax cuts may rocket-fuel the economy in the short-term, but launching tax cuts for the wealthy at a time when the economy is already buoyant is unlikely to support a stable economy in the longer-term. The Dollar may not be dead, but it is difficult to argue for its strength over the long term. 