Greenlight Capital Re’s David Einhorn lamented a bum year in his shareholder letter for 2017 with an investing loss of 1.6% net of fees. He also announced the new lineup of stocks he selected during the fourth quarter: Twitter, Ensco and Time Warner. Twitter First, Einhorn surprised investors by taking a long position in Twitter. As he acknowledged in the letter, he has been betting that certain stocks in the tech space will fail. These stocks, which he collectively calls the “bubble basket,” include Amazon, Netflix and Tesla.    Shares of social media site Twitter, which gives users 280 characters to express their thoughts and share news stories, shed more than a third of their market value since their January 2015 initial public offering, allowing Einhorn to nab them for a mere $21.59 each. One of the most significant problems weighing on the stock was declining revenues, which slid a further 4% in the third quarter to $590 million. The company attributed what Twitter CFO Ned Segal called “improvements toward a return to revenue growth” to its renewed emphasis on video and direct response ad formats, as well as its its data business. Loss per share improved to 3 cents from 15 cents the previous year. Twitter’s monthly active users ticked up 4% from the previous year to 330 million, compared to competitor Facebook’s 2.07 billion monthly active users. Einhorn commented on the stock in his fourth quarter letter: Ensco  Einhorn also ventured into the rallying oil market, buying shares of Ensco for an average price of $5.72. Since June, the price of a barrel of Brent crude have pushed up 50% to roughly $70. Prices have advanced on increased global demand and tighter supply, which has squeezed once abundant reserves, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Tax reform may also present a positive outcome for energy stocks. Bank of America Merrill Lynch has revised its revision for fourth quarter earnings for the sector by 25% on higher energy prices. Einhorn commented on Ensco: Time Warner Einhorn picked up shares of Time Warner for $89.72 on average in the wake of the U.S. government’s delaying its sale to AT&T. The two communications giants agreed to a $108 billion merger on Oct. 22, 2016, with the expectation of the deal closing in late 2017, but the Department of Justice has held up the proceedings by bringing an antitrust case against the companies. Initially, the companies delayed the deadline to April 22. In December, an SEC filing said that the closing date had been pushed back to June 21. The deal allows AT&T to distribute Time Warner’s premium content library through its vast pay TV subscriber base. A trial date for the antitrust case is set for March 19. Einhorn commented on the holding: This article originally appeared HERE. Follow the author on Twitter @hollyla_fon.  