Schlumberger, the world’s largest oilfield services company, is set to begin the earnings season for the industry by releasing its December quarter and full year 2017 financial performance on January 19. We expect the company to post a solid improvement in its top line as well as bottom line, both on an annual and sequential basis, backed by the continued demand for drilling and production equipment and services, evident from the growth in the global rig count. In addition to this, the oilfield contractor’s plans to enter the oil and gas production space by acquiring equity stakes in drilling projects are likely to contribute a notable portion of its value going forward. Q4 Highlights The North American oil and gas rig count experienced a dip in the months of October and November. However, with the extension of the OPEC production cuts, WTI crude oil prices rose sharply in December and averaged around $55 per barrel during the quarter, almost 15% higher than the previous quarter. For full year 2017, oil prices averaged around $51 per barrel, 17% more than 2016. As a result, the region’s rig count recovered to 1,135 units at the end of the December quarter. The Latin American and Middle East markets showed signs of improvement during the quarter. The international rig count rose to 954 units during the same quarter, from 929 units in the same quarter of last year. For full year 2017, the global rig count rose to 2,089 units, compared to 1,772 units at the end of last year. Given the surge in the global rig count during the year, we expect to see a rise in Schlumberger’s revenues for the quarter.    Apart from this, Schlumberger has consistently worked on improving its product offerings as well as developing new and advanced products to enhance the efficiency of existing wells, and reducing the cost of operations for its clients. While it has made significant progress in enhancing its product offerings, it has continued to witness pricing pressure in several markets. We expect this pricing pressure to keep the company’s revenues relatively subdued.  In addition to its core business, the oilfield contractor has been expanding its operations into the conventional oil and gas production business through its Schlumberger Production Management unit. During the fourth quarter, the company entered into a definitive agreement with Cenovus Energy to purchase the Palliser Block located in Alberta, Canada for a cash consideration of $1 billion. We expect this strategy to diversify the company’s risk and contribute notably to its valuation over the long term. View Interactive Institutional Research (Powered by Trefis): Global Large Cap | U.S. Mid & Small Cap | European Large & Mid Cap More Trefis Research Like our charts? Embed them in your own posts using the Trefis WordPress Plugin. 