The recent bankruptcy filing by the largest refiner east of the Mississippi River has brought the abominable Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) back into the headlines. The refinery in question, Philadelphia Energy Solutions (PES), says it was forced to take the bankruptcy route due to the requirements of RFS, which mandates that refiners either blend biofuels in with their gasoline or purchase “credits” called Renewable Identification Numbers (RINs) when the can’t do their own blending. (Now that we have established all our acronyms here, we can go on with the rest of this ridiculous and sad story.) PES claims that, since 2012, its costs of purchasing RINs has exceeded $800 million, which is double its payroll costs and 150% of its capital expenditures over the same time period. PES has not been in a position to exercise the third option under the RFS, which is to import renewable blends from firms in other countries to meet the RINs obligation. However, this third option has been used by other independent refiners in order to satisfy the RFS, meaning that, even as the Trump Administration pushes its stated goal of U.S. energy dominance, the ridiculous terms of the RFS are serving to undermine domestic biofuels producers. These RFS terms are especially harmful to independent refiners, but not for integrated oil companies. The integrated companies have the ability to produce plenty of biofuels of their own, at a far lower cost than the cost of purchasing RINs. Some integrated companies actually rank among the largest suppliers of biofuels. But independent refiners are left trying to buy biofuels or purchase RINs on the open markets, at highly inflated prices. None of this would especially objectionable if the RFS actually provided any benefits to the environment, which was the rationale for its implementation to begin with during the Bush Administration. But that is not the case at all. The UN’s International Panel on Climate Change issued two working group reports in March 2014 that contained the following passages: “Biofuels have direct, fuel‐cycle GHG emissions that are typically 30–90% lower than those for gasoline or diesel fuels. However, since for some biofuels indirect emissions—including from land use change—can lead to greater total emissions than when using petroleum products, policy support needs to be considered on a case by case basis” “Increasing bioenergy crop cultivation poses risks to ecosystems and biodiversity” The International Institute for Sustainable Development also admitted that replacing petroleum fuels with ethanol produces essentially no benefit. Their report estimated it is almost 100 times more efficient and far less costly to raise CAFE standards and increase vehicle emissions requirements than it is to continue blending ethanol into gasoline. So, we have a policy in place that produces essentially no environmental benefit, is threatening the ability of independent refiners to stay in business, but continues to be supported by the agriculture lobby and other business interests that benefit from it. What’s the solution here? Members of congress, most notably Senators Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania and Ted Cruz of Texas, are working on a couple of legislative remedies: Of course, the simplest and most sensible solution here would be to repeal the doggedly irrational RFS entirely, but there are too many supportive special interests with strong lobbying arms to make such an elegant solution practical in the U.S. congress. Thus, if the federal government wants to prevent the RFS from forcing more independent refiners into bankruptcy, the piecemeal fixes proposed by Sen. Cruz and others will have to do. 