Even in the Middle East, home to some of the world’s largest oil and gas producers, the clean energy revolution is coming. Thanks to its fast-growing population and rapid economic growth, its demand for energy is set to grow by 3.5 % a year over the next two decades, according to a new report from Siemens, the German conglomerate, and Masdar, the UAE clean energy developer. Its energy demand is set to grow by 277GW by 2035, to 483GW. A fifth of that will be renewable, up from just over 5% now. An extra 61GW of solar power is expected to be installed over that period, with a conservative estimate of 27GW of wind, says the report, Middle East Power Outlook 2035, which was released at the start of Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week. This is driven by some impressive targets – Egypt plans to have 20% of its power supply from renewable sources by 2022; Saudi Arabia intends to install 9.5GW of renewable capacity by 2023 and by 2050, the UAE has a clean energy target of 44%.    These targets come as the International Renewable Energy Agency, based in Abu Dhabi, announced that the cost of solar power has fallen by almost three quarters since 2010 and are expected to halve again by 2020. Meanwhile, onshore wind project costs are a quarter lower than in 2010 and both technologies are expected to be cheaper than any other source of power generation within two years. However, the bulk of new capacity – about 100GW – will come from new high-efficiency combined-cycle gas power plants, which recycle the heat produced by the gas turbines to create steam that can also generate power, said Dietmar Siersdorfer, CEO Siemens Middle East. This increases efficiency from 25-40% up to more than 60%. A massive 45GW of capacity can be created simply by using CCGTs instead of planned steam plants, Siersdorfer said. One barrier to the widespread adoption of renewable energy in the region is the lack of cost-competitive energy storage, so innovative solutions in this area are urgently needed. However, with the costs of energy storage falling rapidly, many observers believe this problem could soon be overcome and that capacity will grow even faster than the report predicts. One way to store the energy generated by intermittent energy sources such as wind and solar is to use electrolysis to create hydrogen, which can be stored for long periods in tanks or in the natural gas network, and be used to power fuel cell vehicles or used to create petrochemical products. Technologies such as the Internet of Things and digitalization will cut the costs of power generation and make individual devices, power plants and the entire grid more efficient. Efficiency has become a priority for the region since oil prices slumped in 2015 and the true cost of subsidizing power became evident. Thanks to increasing digitilization, power systems in the Middle East, as in the rest of the world, are undergoing a transformation from centralized, one-way delivery of electricity to more decentralized and distributed power systems where consumers can produce and sell energy, too. “Uncertainty in today’s world has become the new normal,” Siersdorfer said. “The pace of change is phenomenal and companies, individuals and countries need to adapt or fall behind.” 