Ask anyone in the oil and gas industry about what's hot these days and chances are good they'll tell you the Permian Basin in West Texas and New Mexico. It's with good reason: There's a lot of recoverable oil there – 60 billion to 70 billion barrels by IHS Markit's reckoning, double what's already been produced. And it can be brought to the surface pretty cheaply, giving its producers a high rate-of-return, even at lower oil prices. For some companies, that might mean considering taking some money off the table, which could spur more dealmaking in the basin this year. Analysts at Seaport Global Securities recently returned from meetings with private companies in Midland and learned that several deals are about to be hatched in the Delaware portion of the basin. One executive even speculated that there might be four to five deals announced in the next six weeks. The analysts think that Royal Dutch Shell and Concho Resources have multiple packages for sale in Ward County, Texas, and that their positions – about 20,000 acres in total – will be "snatched up" by a mix of private and public companies. They join onetime bankrupt Vanguard Natural Resources, which announced earlier this month that it's selling 1,700 net acres in the county. OneEnergy Partners, which is located in Lea County, N.M., also is expected to be sold in two separate transactions, SGS said. A recent sale of New Mexico leases – which pushed eastward close to the Central Basin Platform – fetched $27,000 per acre in some areas. That's a positive read through for publicly traded Lilis Energy and Jagged Peak Energy – both of which are considered potential takeover targets – and Oasis Petroleum, the analysts said. Oasis itself agreed to buy Delaware properties in Ward as well as Loving, Winkler and Reeves Counties in December from Forge Energy for $946 million in cash and stock, doubling its inventory and adding a new area. Forge is backed by private equity firms EnCap Investments and Pine Brook Partners. The Western Delaware Basin is also showing signs of improvement with Riverstone-funded Three Rivers Operating Co., known as 3ROC, making recent advances, SGS said. That bodes well for PDC Energy, which has around 16,000 acres in the area (it recently wrote down the value of its position by about $253 million after only 15 months), WPX Energy, which has 18,000 in the area, and Carrizo Oil & Gas, which has 17,000. The analysts think 3ROC will soon ink an attractive midstream deal for the acreage, which would tee up a potential sale of its exploration and production assets to a potential suitor given the certainty that the production could be transported out. Finally, SGS said Midland has been abuzz about Elevation Resources’ recent success in the Barnett shale formation in the Central Basin Platform in south central Andrews County, Texas. State data shows a 24-hour initial production rate of 822 barrels of oil per day from one of the company’s wells, which is a one-mile lateral. The Pine Brook-backed company plans to start selling its 25,000 net acres in the area next month, probably to a buyer "more equipped to handle development mode drilling in short order," they said. Elevation’s acreage is surrounded by several publicly traded companies, most notably Energen, Apache and Occidental Petroleum, SGS says. Others with properties in the area, which covers Andrews, Ector and Winkler counties, include ConocoPhillips and Chevron as well as Forge and Sheridan Production Co. The analysts said EnCap-backed Novo Oil & Gas is also actively targeting the area (it's led by former management at PayRock, which was also funded by EnCap and was sold to Marathon Oil in 2016 for $887.5 million). And Diamondback Energy may have added a "non-trivial" amount of acreage in Ector County after assessing the Barnett’s promise there. "Stay tuned for more on this play," they said. 