What’s the business outlook for business aviation? Will this be the year that sales of used aircraft are strong enough that the sellers become buyers of new private jets? Has pricing stabilized? What's happening across fractional ownership, jet cards and on-demand charter? Is the industry expanding or just treading water. What about fuel prices? How will the new tax scheme in the U.S. impact the industry? Is there a pilot shortage coming? Are new business models getting traction? How did 2017 end? What's the outlook for 2018? We called into the corner offices of over 30 industry CEOs and asked them to look into their crystal ball and share with Forbes.com readers what they are seeing. How's business? What’s your business outlook in 2018 for the segments of business aviation you serve, and why? Any particular concerns or areas you think will be particularly bright spots? (Answers are in alphabetical order by company. Some have been condensed.) Peter Maestrales, CEO, Airstream Jets "2018 marks Airstream Jets’ 10th anniversary of being in business. Our organization has never been stronger and there is also growth occurring in the industry overall. However, the Business Aviation industry also remains very fragmented. Air Charter, in particular, is saturated with brokerages and operators. But this is not necessarily a bad thing. "The key to Airstream Jets’ recent success is largely a result of the DISTANCE CARD (a jet card which uses mileage instead hours as its currency) we first started selling Spring of 2016. The model is so different, on a very fundamental level, than anything else offered in the industry. But we’ve not looked back since then. The DISTANCE CARD now accounts for more than two-thirds of our overall sales, which means our distance-based algorithm has been validated as a sound concept that is simple, transparent, flexible and quantifiable. 2018 will be a very exciting year for us as we continue to grow and take the business to the next level." Mark Briffa, CEO, Air Partner, PLC "We had a busy 2017 and expect ongoing demand for our services throughout 2018.The more global airlines reduce the services they offer customers and the more stressful flying commercially becomes with increased airport security and waiting times, the more interest there is in flying private. As interest grows, so the PJ industry is getting smarter at making its product more attainable to a wider audience. "Our private jet division has enjoyed significant growth over recent years. We expect further growth in this segment as clients continue to leave commercial aviation, to take advantage of industry-leading card programs like ours. One key event for Air Partner and the entire business aviation sector will be the World Cup in Russia.Air Partner has a long track record of supporting both corporates and individuals around major sporting events. We’ve also been active in the Russian market for well over a decade, and understanding Russia, and specifically aviation in Russia is absolutely vital to ensuring customer satisfaction is paramount. Historically we’ve worked with many of the major sponsors of World Cups – flying their clients, senior management, guests and freight cargo needs to one of the world’s greatest gatherings – we expect to be busy on that front again this year. "We also expect our Safety Consultancy & Training division to continue to benefit from the twin trends of global regulation and outsourcing. We have enjoyed a number of new mandate wins, and we expect to receive further appointments in these fields. Air Partner’s aviation safety consultancy Baines Simmons adds an important safety offering to the Air Partner Group. Baines Simmons provides customers with safety audits for airworthiness and advises corporates on adhering to international compliance and safety management best practice. The division has won a number of new consultancy projects recently, and is well placed to grow as the rise of global regulation and outsourcing continue to drive demand.” Joe Moeggenberg, CEO, ARGUS "For the first time since 2008, flight activity reached over three million flights in 2017, an upward trend we expect to see into 2018 as our TRAQPak analysis forecasted flight activity for Q1 in 2018 to increase 5% year over year. In 2017, Part 135 activity saw the largest year over year operation category increase of over 9% and large cabin aircraft saw the largest year over year increase across the industry, up almost 15%. "A large concern in business aviation is the serious shortage of pilots. By 2027 it’s expected airlines will hire 250,000 pilots. By 2037, that number is estimated to jump to 600,000 pilots. Airlines and business aviation are in direct competition for experienced pilots, making recruitment of pilots even more complex." Craig Sincock, President & CEO, Avfuel "Before we look ahead, it’s important to look back. 2017 was a great year for the business aviation fuel market. We saw this division continue its march ahead in strong single-digit gains year over year— and not just in the U.S., but in Europe as well. We expect the business aviation fuel market to see a similar level of growth in 2018 as it did in 2017, thanks to the upturn in global economic conditions." Matt Thurber, Editor, Aviation International News “Despite concerns about declining new business jet sales and pricing pressure on aircraft manufacturers, the business aviation industry remains a bright spot in the world economy. Growing numbers of high-net-worth individuals globally combined with airline cutbacks in service to smaller airports bodes well for business aviation, and at the same time broadens the need for the delivery of timely, accurate, and informative information to business aviation consumers. “At AIN Publications, we see significant and growing interest in our print and digital publications, and a concomitant exploration of new ways to deliver marketing messages by our advertisers. At the same time, the majority of AIN readers prefer print, but a growing number are accessing AIN's material via mobile devices and the web.” Oliver King, CEO, Avinode Group: “2017 was a healthy year for the charter sector of business aviation. The industry, unsurprisingly, suffered in the aftermath of the financial crisis ten years ago. There were several false dawns, but, from 2015, global industry analysts reported that business aviation in the U.S. started to grow strongly, and finally, in 2017, the European market also experienced substantial growth. According to industry figures, in 2017, the volume of charter traffic in the U.S. increased by 7% and in Europe by 12%, versus 2016. These two markets together represent 90% of all air charter activity. “At the end of 2017, Avinode experienced a surge in charter flight requests which has continued into the first weeks of 2018 and we expect this strong trend to continue. The majority of that growth has occurred in the Light Jet segment, particularly in the U.S. and in key markets such as France, the U.K. and Germany. This segment includes aircraft like the Citation Mustang and Phenom 300 with up to six passengers, flying on high demand routes between London, Geneva and Nice or Palm Beach and Teterboro. “Business jet growth is tied to wealth, both corporate and private. If global stock markets continue to thrive and corporate earnings continue to grow, business aviation, in turn, will continue to enjoy the good times." David Coleal, President, Bombardier Business Aircraft "In 2018, the brightest spot in the industry will be the entry-into-service of the Global 7000 aircraft, the largest purpose-built business jet ever. Bombardier Business Aircraft debuted the Global 7000 business jet at the NBAA Business Aviation Conference and Exhibition in Las Vegas last November, and it stole the show. It is apparent from the public and customer reception that this aircraft is a game-changer. We have created the first and only four-zone aircraft in the world, and it is designed to accommodate every need a passenger might have while flying, all while delivering an exceptionally smooth ride. The Global 7000 aircraft is an unprecedented experience from the kitchen to the walk-in luggage area, and it will continue to redefine business aviation next year." Dave Kempa, Founder and President, Charters By Air Denver "The outlook for Charters by Air Denver in 2018 is optimistic, both for passengers and freight. Many of our long-standing customers are prospering in the current economic climate. On the passenger side, there is a plethora of fractional ownership and jet card programs in the country today with new ones being added to the mix all the time. This would suggest that the market for private air charter is healthy and even growing, as the traveling public, and especially the business traveler looks for alternatives to the onerous and restrictive experience on commercial airlines." Alasdair Whyte, Corporate Jet Investor “For the last 10 years it has become traditional for people in business aviation to start the year very optimistic about a recovery; only to end the year disappointed. This year will be different. More people will fly on business aircraft than ever in 2018, and there is no doubt that it will be a record 12 months for people joining business aviation membership programs. It will also be the year where aircraft buyers return. “At the end of 2017, the first American president to own a business jet delivered a big boost to the industry. Allowing businesses to write off 100% of the cost of a new or pre-owned business jet may not sound significant but will encourage many people who have been following the market to finally buy an aircraft. This will be the big theme of 2018. “The last 10 years have been extremely tough for all aircraft manufacturers, although General Dynamics-owned Gulfstream was fortunate enough to have the genuinely game-changing G650. Hardest hit was smaller aircraft manufacturers. At the end of its 2008 financial year Cessna, part of Textron had a $14.5 billion backlog. Cessna’s most recently reported backlog was $1.2 billion, and this includes Beechcraft which it bought in 2014. “Combined with rising small business confidence, 2018 will see many small and mid-size American companies buy both new and pre-owned aircraft – many of these will be smaller aircraft. The business jet market is still very much dominated by the U.S. Some 70% of business aircraft are in North America, and we are already seeing optimism spread across the Atlantic. We will not see record sales of aircraft - 2007 and 2008 were bubbles - but people will end 2018 much happier about the year than they have been for the last decade.” Gary Hammes, President, Delta Private Jets "Business is strong, and with current economic conditions and stock market patterns we are anticipating another record year in 2018. We continue to see strong demand for our product, especially in the corporate space. We expect to grow our charter business 15-20% and we expect a 20% increase in Jet Card sales. As 2018 progresses, we will continue to expand our fleet by about 15 aircraft to meet growth targets and demand. We are developing an enhanced jet card product, and we recently launched our Sky Access membership program which offers access to empty legs and fixed hourly rate private jet travel." Kenn Ricci, Principal, Directional Aviation “It varies business by business but I’ll start with Flexjet. In 2017 at Flexjet, we were still in the middle of our transition to large cabin (aircraft). 2017 really was the foundation year for this transition and we had a great background to do this. In order to do a large cabin aircraft program, we had to have a strong mid and super-midsized program and that went as good as it could go. “We took deliveries of midsized Legacy 450s, super-midsize Challenger 350s and large-cabin G650s. Growing large-cabin was hugely important for us in 2017, so getting those G650s online and operating was the highlight of the year. We (Flexjet) had our largest revenue year ever and our highest profit since we have owned the company. “In the maintenance, repair and overhaul business2017 was very strong for MRO. Certainly, there was some consolidation going on in this sector. But in general, we still have a very helpful acquisition market and interest rates are low. There are a lot of attractive acquisition targets still out there. “For the industry overall in 2018, I still think it will be a low-interest rate environment - still very attractive. But I think we may be starting to near the end of this cycle domestically. It has been as good as it can be. What I see happening is opportunities overseas more – we are starting to see a shift to more opportunities outside the U.S. than within it.” Michael Amalfitano, President and CEO, Embraer Executive Jets “I believe that we are still in a recovering market, but economic data and macroeconomic indicators, such as GDP and corporate profits, are favorable for real growth. Complemented by a milestone tax…pre-owned inventory levels are receding and reducing the used aircraft market’s proportion to the active fleet to the threshold of 10%, and possibly crossing into the single digits sooner rather than later. “In light of the continuous introduction of modern aircraft models over recent years and a more refrained OEM production rate, the contrast between new and available used aircraft is improving, causing a price stabilization that renders a more accurate picture of aircraft value. Case in point is the introduction of the Phenom 300E last year. Although it was already the most delivered business aircraft in the previous four years, the Phenom 300E has a new interior architecture and design, with highly customizable seats and a state-of-the-art IFE from Lufthansa Technik further elevating the customer experience and raising expectations of light jet travel. Increased business aviation traffic, both in the U.S. and in Europe, is increasing the demand for fleet operators’ aircraft usage, especially in the charter market, which is a source of demand for new aircraft in Europe. “The common theme of our conversations with customers is value…Corporate Flight Departments are recognizing the value that our investments in innovation can deliver to their operations, to their passengers and to their business, leading to more frequent and productive conversations about fleet optimization and modernization.” Keith Plumb, President & CEO, Executive AirShare "Business looks good. The effects of the tax bill should pay benefits for business aviation users, including the 100% depreciation expensing on new and used aircraft. Also, oil prices have been sustaining levels over $60 a barrel since the first of the year, which in the Central U.S., is beneficial to our customers who are in the energy sector. "Our industry will continue to be challenged by the pilot shortage. Overall operating costs for private aircraft will increase as pilot salaries are on the rise due to the high demand from commercial airlines coupled with a generation not interested in aviation. We need to improve efforts to influence our country’s youth to get involved with general aviation. " Mike Silvestro, CEO, Flexjet “2017 was a very good year for us, both in transactions and flying activity. We beat our new business goals and our fleet plan. Our holiday activity was up 20% year over year, and even more for our Red Label aircraft, which was up 31%. I’m optimistic about 2018. From a micro standpoint, I feel good about our momentum. Our programs and airplanes have been well received in the marketplace. The G650s are playing a big role in our expansion of international travel. From a macro standpoint, the tax change is providing some momentum.” Alex Wilcox, CEO, JetSuite “Business is great! We had record SuiteKey (jet card) membership sales last year, and the market is responding wonderfully to our transition to an all-Embraer fleet. The Phenom 300 is proving very popular at JetSuite. Customer optimism and market buoyancy feel stronger than ever for 2018. And the semi-private category we created with JetSuiteX is booming. We will at least double that business this year.” Steve Orfali, CEO, Jetset Group Inc. and Wholesale Jet Club “We believe 2018 will be another very strong year for our companies. Jetset Group saw a 30% increase in business in 2017, and we project about the same in 2018. The economy continues to flourish, and we are seeing more and more people shift to private jet travel as a result of it. I believe we will see some rising fuel prices in 2018, which could bring up the pricing on charters, but that’s why many people opt for our jet cards. They have guaranteed rates with no fuel surcharges.” Justin Crabbe, CEO, Jettly “2018 will continue to be a year of fast-growth for Jettly with the majority of our membership holders coming from the corporate sector. We plan to introduce a number of new lifestyle partners and tiered membership options more in-line with that of a traditional jet card. The Jettly member base has more than quintupled from the same time last year on both the member and air operator side and we anticipate two more divisions of the company in 2018 to handle large group charters as well as jet cards and on-demand charter. I also anticipate further concerns and downward pressure to emerge on companies selling individual seats on charter aircraft.” Jamie Walker, President & CEO, Jet Linx Aviation “Our Jet Card business is growing at a strong and steady pace as more individuals realize the need for private aviation both in their business and leisure travel. Our average growth rate over the past five years has been 30% or more for both revenue and flight hours. I expect that business growth and utilization will continue to grow at 30% or more in 2018. "We are also anticipating a big boost in our Aircraft Management business. For one, the recent tax reform allows 100% bonus depreciation for new and pre-owned aircraft as of September 27, 2017 and ending in 2023. This cash value of full expensing is likely to stimulate aircraft ownership for many businesses and individuals, especially as it includes the pre-owned market where there is still a great inventory of aircraft to purchase. We are also seeing a trend of corporate flight departments closing or consolidating. Internal flight departments are now, more than ever, seeking to benefit from the significant revenue and savings that Jet Linx’s scale can offer with our fleet of more than 100 aircraft nationwide. "Overall, we’re seeing tremendous opportunities for growth in 2018 and beyond and are looking to expand to new markets on the east and west coasts, including Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, Salt Lake City and San Jose.” Sergey Petrossov, CEO, JetSmarter “Business is great. We grew over 100% in 2017 for revenue and over 150% in passengers flown. We expect to double again in size in 2018. For the market, we believe the sharing economy will consume private aviation all the way from aircraft ownership to single seat bookings, and consumers will use multiple biz jet solutions for their travel needs.” Joshua Hebert, CEO, Magellan Jets “2017 was our best year renewing members. We had an 89% renewal rate. The response to our corporate membership program has exceeded our expectations. We were surprised at how many corporations have a need above and beyond the retail customer. With this, we expect to see an increase in corporate road shows in 2018. We also have some exciting partnerships for our business customers in the works for 2018, and we plan to offer special 10-hour cards all year to celebrate our 10th anniversary. We’re in a great economy, so the timing is right for corporate memberships. A concern in a good economy is you do see aircraft sales increase very quickly. Clients bite off more than they can chew, and this puts them in a position they can’t get out of. We give them options so they don’t have to lock themselves into something they can’t get out of if the economy goes the other direction.” Roger Woolsey, CEO, Million Air “There are several factors, that when combined are heating up the business aviation sector, mainly the combination of declining used aircraft prices, favorable tax climate, sector awareness and the improved economy as a whole. With used aircraft values at an all-time low, more companies are venturing into the market acquiring and unlocking the power of private aviation. The improving economy, bolstered by recently passed tax laws, affords company executives both the confidence and dollars to strike out for additional business tools as they seek to improve their company’s performance. Another dynamic, our tightly knit industry has diversified tremendously over the past decade with the growth of fractional ownership, jet cards and now creative club memberships. There is a much wider customer base taking to the business aviation skies than years past. I see a bright, rising future for our industry, and believe that we will continue to unlock the under-recognized benefits that only business aviation can deliver!” Ed Bolen, CEO, National Business Aviation Association “Historically, 3% GDP growth has been a pretty clear number in our industry. When growth is at or above 3%, things are good and getting better, and when it goes under, it gets worse. Three percent really separates a good and not so good market. As we finished up last year, we saw a strong economy and market growth with lowering unemployment. It means we are entering 2018 where people feel macroeconomic trends are positive, so we go in guardedly optimistic. From a business standpoint, there is a lower corporate tax rate. Regulations are not growing exponentially. “When we get to our industry specifically, there was some encouragement at the end of last year that the pre-owned market was returning to historic levels. As we go into the marketplace, we are seeing a pretty good outlook for the entire spectrum of general aviation aircraft from pistons being sold to schools to train pilots at a time when there is believed to be a shortage, turboprops and entry-level jets are doing well with companies wanting to tap into regional opportunities for flights under 1,000 miles while at the same time there is an interest in the ultra long-range aircraft to tap into opportunities presented by a global economy.” Adam Johnson, Chairman and CEO, NetJets "Business is very good. We’re seeing a migration of demand into new aircraft types such as our midsize Citation Latitude super mid-size Challenger 350 and with that a shift to larger cabin classes. And our pace of sales has allowed us to scale these fleets very quickly with hundreds of new jets entering the fleet in just a couple of years. "Our shared Ownership model remains the foundation of our business and affords us a level of stability unmatched in the industry. 2017 saw NetJets sell more than 3,000 25-hour jet cards and about 135 aircraft worth of shares sold and leased globally. The growth of our shared ownership model is outpacing our card programs and we expect that the recent tax law changes will further fuel that trend." Janine K. Iannarelli, President, Par Avion, Ltd. "While I don't see the overall numbers of buyers growing exponentially, I do think demand will increase for select models of airplanes across the size spectrum. This will be driven by the fact that supply has tightened and the remaining buyers, as well as any newcomers, will find themselves fighting over opportunities. As I mentioned to a client the other day, the natural occurrence should be an increase in the price of any commodity in short supply, but I still think we have a long way to go in that regard. What will happen for sure is a firming of current pricing. Sellers will be less willing to discount substantially and eventually forward-thinking pricing will come into play. "I think the future is bright for any new entrant into the small/medium or large jet market if you have the perfect combination of reasonable total time, good cosmetics, no major maintenance pending and have at least made some investment in the 2020 NEXGEN requirements. My only concern is the lead time now required to input an airplane for a pre-buy inspection or completion of any work needing to be accomplished as part of a sale. My mantra is time kills deals and no one is immune from the ravages of time." Greg Raiff, CEO, Private Jet Services (PJS) Group “Our corporate and leisure business was up year over year more than 100% when we compare 2016 to 2017. We expect that dynamic growth to continue in 2018, as the geometric increase in the number of private flyers globally, and the price efficiency of our solution gains broad recognition.” Adam Twidell, CEO, PrivateFly “BizAv will continue to grow in 2018. This will be driven by continued growth and confidence in the on-demand charter segment, which is helping to make the overall market more accessible and also bringing customers into the pipeline for the future. In 2017, we saw the number of charter hours flown higher than at any time since 2008, with departures from Teterboro airport alone rising by 54% YOY. Additionally, we saw spend per flight go up 19.7% overall with customers flying further and on larger jets in 2017. We expect this to continue in 2018. "PrivateFly has grown over 50% again in 2017, and we are looking to continue that growth path in 2018, in large part by U.S. expansion. We've grown both top line revenue and bottom line EBITDA as a profitable online platform in the digital space proving true viability. After opening our first US office in 2016, we've expanded our team with the recent takeover of Bird Dog Jet and received several new awards and accolades. These steps are just the beginning of our American growth, and we have big plans for 2018.” Roland Vincent, CEO, Roland Vincent Associates “The business of business aviation is definitely recovering. With stratospheric stock market valuations, new U.S. tax laws, and an increasing optimistic customer and prospect base, we expect 2018 to be a stronger year for orders of new business jet aircraft and for sales of pre-owned aircraft. There are several new jet models that are entering into service in 2018, including the Pilatus PC-24, Gulfstream G500 and Citation Longitude. These will generate customer buzz, and will also trigger an influx of fresh pre-owned inventory into the market. Young inventory has been mostly picked over by savvy buyers in the last few years, and an influx of newer models will be welcomed by prospective purchasers, especially those with an appetite for immediate 100% expensing for tax purposes. We are also expecting a continuous stream of certification updates from Gulfstream and Bombardier as they proceed with flight testing of the Gulfstream G600 and Global 7000 arge cabin aircraft, which will create additional excitement. We also expect Dassault to lock down and announce the details on their new Falcon 5.5X, an aircraft that will be well received in the market.” Andrew Collins, CEO, Sentient Jet and Skyjet “We had an incredibly strong year at both Sentient Jet and Skyjet. Each brand saw growth in many of our key-performance measurements. We moved into new headquarters, launched new products, and pushed our brand and partnership visibility up a few notches. “I feel relatively bullish on 2018 within the major client markets that we serve, especially those in the financial sector. We’re projecting significant growth at both brands and seek to continue to push into new product categories and client segments. “My suspicion is that weather and various weather extremities will be a continued headline throughout 2018 for the world and for our sector. We were very fortunate to help a great deal of people through the hurricane trifecta of Harvey, Irma, and Maria in the back half of 2017 and continue to provide a helping hand beyond our call to private aviation. The lead-in to 2018 has also brought forth frigid temperatures impacting equipment and infrastructure and made sure that only the best companies with true safety, supply, and logistical focal points will be able to deliver on their brand and transactional promises to their clients in the coming months. “Lastly, it feels like a number of upstarts that pursued significant growth models will continue to have industry visibility. However, unlike perhaps the past few years, they will have to mature their models to meet investor requests and demands and provide real insight into how they will scale and how they plan on truly impacting the private aviation buying segment.” Kimberly Herrell, President, Schubach Aviation “We have seen an increase in corporations utilizing private aircraft for business travel and we expect that to grow in 2018. These travelers require high performance, WiFi-enabled planes that can fly coast to coast. With language in the new tax code, many aircraft owners are delaying plans to upgrade to larger models. This will eventually have an impact on the entire business aviation landscape.” James Butler, CEO, Shaircraft “We’re very optimistic about 2018. Over our 20-year history of advising private flyers, we’ve found that when the stock market is on the rise, so is our business. Market increases like we’ve seen recently tend to bring new clients into the market, especially at the level of block charter and jet card programs. Combine that with the new tax bill, which lower rates and offers attractive depreciation write-offs, and we have a great recipe for increases in the fractional ownership market as well. It remains essential, however, that both new entrants and experienced private flyers do their due diligence and call upon the most knowledgeable aviation and legal experts in making investments of this magnitude.” Jason Middleton, CEO, Silver Air "For us at Silver Air, the outlook for 2018 is great in pretty much all areas. We are seeing aircraft sales go up, aircraft charter volume is going up, and charter clients are stepping up in the size of aircraft as well. We are seeing a particularly strong upswing in the Super Mid category. Aircraft like the Citation X and Challenger 300 are in high demand for charter. We have seen jet owners moving up from smaller Light and Mid-Size aircraft to the Super-Mid cabin aircraft. With the advantages of some of the new tax laws, we anticipate aircraft acquisition accelerating in 2018." Ricky Sitomer, CEO, Star Jets International, LLC “The private jet charter market is on fire right now. The tax cuts that are fueling the market are fueling the private jet growth for Wall Street and Main Street alike. Since I just finished my first full year in my new business, my outlook for 2018 is 500% internal growth, not including acquisitions. I expect to also make two to three acquisitions in 2018. In 2017, I merged Star Jets International into a public company. In 2018, I expect to do several rounds of financing up to $20 million. I am the only publicly traded charter broker in the industry and I expect to use this platform to acquire brokerage firms and other brokers so that they can have a way to not only earn commissions but can also look forward to having stock and making money on the back end as well." Tom Filippini, CEO, StraightLine Private Air "StraightLine Private Air unveiled its new, more flexible and value-conscious approach to private aviation in 2017, and the response has been overwhelmingly positive, far outstripping initial revenue forecasts. Strong 2017 demand has accelerated in early 2018 and year-over-year growth is forecast to exceed 100%. "While (we are) concerned that a broad market correction is looming, (we are) optimistic that (our) program is well positioned for a downturn. In a less robust economic environment, consumers will seek out ways to fly private that provide more value with less commitment and more flexibility, which aligns well with StraightLine’s program." Clive Jackson, CEO, Victor “Victor is looking forward to 2018, following a highly successful 2017 of further strong growth. Over 80% of our route pairings last year were unique, reflecting sustained customer interest in flexible, tailored on-demand charter. We expect to see a significant increase in group charter and cargo bookings too, as Victor continues to evolve its transparent, high-tech, high touch platform into a one-stop shop delivering a wide range of seamless B2C and B2B services. Deeper expansion in North America is a key focus. Victor’s U.S. team more than doubled in 2017 providing a strong platform for further growth there over the coming months.” Thomas Flohr, Founder and Chairman, VistaJet “2018 looks very positive. 2017 confirmed the growth trend for the industry, and VistaJet significantly outpaced it once again in all markets. We expect to continue the momentum into 2018. “First, there’s a direct correlation between the confidence in the economy and business aviation results. Fortunately, the economy has been strong recently so the industry is benefitting. In fact, in Q3 2017, average flight hours per aircraft per month were at the highest level since 2008, the pre-crisis level. And, in a growing economy, the value of time is most appreciated. Business Jets create time, they are time machines. “Second, the confidence in On-Demand type services is growing, and leaving ownership behind. Our current Program clients are very happy with their decision to join VistaJet and our business model, so much so, many have added more hours to existing contracts. And they are referring VistaJet to their friends, colleagues, business partners, etc. The VistaJet model is resonating with consumers. The macro-trend away from full and fractional ownership continues to gain pace.” Kenny Dichter, Founder and CEO, Wheels Up "Wheels Up is celebrating its 5th anniversary in 2018. We expect another banner year and to exit with 6,000 active members and a $400 million run rate with over 100 aircraft. We took delivery of our first three Citation Xs so we are now a three airplane type fleet. Wheels Up is revenue growing at over 35% per year, and we expect that kind of growth rate moving forward." Bradley Stewart, Chairman & CEO, XOJET "We are coming off another strong year in 2017, and exceeded our budget and operating targets. The launch of the new XOJET Access Solutions Membership programs was extremely well received by our clients and continues to significantly beat our targets. Our outlook for 2018 is very positive and we are expecting to see continued migration of clients from ownership, fractional and corporate flight departments to on-demand platforms, particularly in the enterprise space.” In Part 2, the trend is your friend as business aviation CEOs inform about the forces that are impacting the market.