Midstream Master Limited Partnerships (MLPs) were created as tax efficient entities to own and operate energy infrastructure assets and distribute most of their cash flow to their general and limited partners. Early MLPs in the 1980s were run conservatively, minimizing capital expenditures to maximize distributions. Following the lead of Kinder Morgan and Enterprise Products, MLPs transformed themselves in the 2000s by adding a growth component to their investor value proposition, initially inorganically through acquisitions and later organically. New opportunities emerged to “replumb” the nation’s gathering and pipeline infrastructure as shale oil and gas developments needed to be connected to traditional markets.  And the MLP structure continues to evolve in response to changing conditions in the field and on Wall Street. Today’s midstream ventures face fierce competition, the new GOP-led tax plan will lessen some of the tax advantages and a shift in ownership from the original founders to traditional investment managers has brought new perspectives on how shareholder value can be created within the sector.    As part of a series of shareholder value research classes, students of the C.T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston found that from 2003-2013, MLPs provided exceptional returns to their unit holders, with the Alerian MLP Index advancing at twice the rate of the S&P 500 Index. The drivers of this appeared to be strong growth in revenues, with less significance given to returns on assets. The class found market values were consistent with an assumption that past growth in distributions per share would continue indefinitely, regardless of the ability of the MLP to deliver sufficient cash to sustain the distribution growth. In late 2014, global oil prices collapsed, and midstream companies’ valuations followed soon after (Figure 1). As described in an earlier blog focused on the period 2014-15, this provided a stress test for the sector and revealed that MLPs with higher general partner (GP) take through normal and incentive distribution rights suffered higher value erosion. We questioned the viability of incentive distribution rights in an environment that may be less supportive of aggressive growth strategies. A new class of 12 students researched the midstream sector during the Fall 2017 semester to try to understand the drivers of the midstream devaluation and the implications for the future of the midstream sector. The 2017 class found a very different business environment to that of our earlier class. The midstream sector had become about twice as risky in the period 2014-16 as it was in 2009-14 (Figure 2). The higher beta stemmed from a variety of factors: Reduced “Re-plumbing” Opportunities Oil prices have now recovered from the extreme lows of 2016, and drilling has picked up. But not every field offers equal opportunity. Production growth for oil is largely in the Permian Basin (Figure 3), where numerous pipeline projects are planned to expand capacity and lessen the impact of geographic basin differentials; production growth seems to have plateaued in the Eagle Ford, Bakken, SCOOP and STACK plays in Oklahoma and from Colorado Niobrara formations, limiting demand for new infrastructure projects there. Natural gas growth is largely in the Marcellus and Utica formations of Appalachia, where new infrastructure projects are virulently contested by environmental activists. Growth from the Haynesville in Louisiana requires modest new pipeline investments to connect to LNG projects on the Gulf Coast. Many of the most important infrastructure projects have been completed or are under construction, and midstream investors may question future growth prospects. Increased Competitive Intensity In addition to diminished investment opportunities, growth opportunities are fiercely contested by mature midstream companies and a relatively new set of companies whose primary business is upstream or downstream. These companies include most of the independent refiners, including Phillips 66, Valero Energy Corp., Andeavor Logistics LP, Holly Energy Partners and Marathon Oil, and some domestic exploration and production companies, including Western Gas Partners (Anadarko), EQT Corporation, Antero Midstream Partners and Shell Oil. In the past, these integrated companies were sources of growth investments for MLPs as they divested underutilized legacy midstream infrastructure and outsourced major midstream projects. Both groups of midstream companies provided similar returns to unit holders, but integrated companies have a head start on sourcing new projects to meet the future needs of the parent company. Tax and Monetary Policy MLPs have historically held a substantial tax advantage over traditional midstream firms due to favorable treatment of depreciation and, as a partnership, avoidance of double taxation incurred by C-Corps. The new GOP tax plan lowers the corporate tax rate and reduces the cost of double taxation, lowering the MLP advantage . The Federal Reserve plans to continue to raise interest rates, which will increase the cost of capital and reduce the value of future cash flows. How long-term interest rates will respond is uncertain, but falling rates in the 1990s and 2000s provided powerful tailwinds increasing the value of all fixed income securities, including MLPs. Rising interest rates would provide headwinds to value creation in fixed interest securities, including MLPs. Change in Ownership Structure All the studied companies raised new equity capital to fund growth between 2011 and 2016 by selling new units primarily to traditional investment managers such as Vanguard, Tortoise Capital, Fidelity and major bank investment funds. A few companies sustained their 2011 ownership shares (Table 1). Most MLPs and former MLPs such as Kinder Morgan Inc. ended 2016 with a majority of their units owned by traditional investment managers (Figure 4). In a second group of companies, the general partner, or GP, maintained its ownership position but did not participate in new offerings so their ownership position was diluted (Enterprise Products does not have a GP, but Duncan family interests provide a stable, though eroding ownership foundation (Figure 4)). In a third group, the GP sold down its position to traditional investment managers, presumably to raise cash. The fourth group of companies underwent radical changes, in which individuals/ insiders, venture capital and private equity investors reduced their holdings and sold to traditional investment managers. Kinder Morgan, Inc. is an example (Figure 5). Hedge funds have also shown an interest in the midstream sector. Companies with more than 10% ownership by hedge funds at the end of 2016 were Holly (13%), Targa (11%), ETP (10%), EQM (10%). Eleven other companies studied had hedge fund ownership above 5%. Due to the short-term intent of many hedge funds, this may be a harbinger of future instability. Looking Forward It seems that the business outlook for the midstream sector is settling into a period when investor confidence has been sapped by failed expectations of distribution growth, lower growth opportunities, high competitive intensity driving down returns, along with uncertainty on appropriate corporate structure and whether the MLP tax advantage will be weakened. There are also questions about whether management and investor groups are aligned on the proper value proposition. These uncertainties influenced enterprise values at the end of 2016, and the class developed a series of valuation models for 20 companies. They were based on the premise that capital spending would drive growth in cash flows and would earn a 10% discounted cash flow return over 20 years; 2017 cash flow would be increased as a result of investments in the prior three years and 2017 capital spending would consume 70% of cash flow from operations with the remainder available for distributions. This process was repeated for five years, then terminal value was calculated using the perpetual growth methodology assuming 4.2% per year growth rate for each company. These models estimated the intrinsic value for each company at the end of 2016, which matched market based enterprise value quite well (Figure 6). The correlation was much better than we had found in a similar study in 2013, when growth in distributions seemed the predominant driver of value. This analysis suggests midstream companies should return to the basics of creating value growth by investing in profitable new midstream projects but focus less on high growth in distributions. Successful companies will present a clear investor value proposition, clearly defining targets for growth, profitability and risk, backed up by a credible strategic plan to deliver financial goals aligned with the portfolio needs of their investors. They will probably eliminate Incentive Distribution Rights in exchange for a one-time payment to lower the MLP cost of capital and remain competitive in bidding for acquisitions or major projects. They will work hard to exceed expectations and develop exceptional capabilities in: In a mature industry sector with fewer growth opportunities, consolidation should be expected as the strong devour their weaker rivals. However, our belief is that most acquisitions are fully priced, present significant post-merger integration challenges, and add little value. Management teams should remain skeptical as bankers promote seemingly compelling M&A opportunities. They should dive deep in due diligence to pursue only those potential transactions that enable tangible synergy cost reductions or unlock hidden value in growth opportunities unrecognized or not realizable by the target.  