U.S. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke recently announced a leasing plan for 2019-2024 that would put more than 90% of the total Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) acreage and over 98% of "undiscovered, technically recoverable" oil/gas resources in federal offshore areas in play for future exploration and development. The plan proposes 47 lease sales, versus the 11 made under the Obama Administration, when 94% of our OCS was off limits to oil/gas leasing and exploration. The benefits of the new offshore energy plan for the U.S. are huge and multi-faceted. U.S. Oil/Gas Demand Very High Or Rising Oil/gas will remain an essential component of the U.S. energy portfolio for decades to come, here. For example, the notion that electric vehicles are going to soon take significant market share from oil is obviously premature: the U.S. has over 250 oil-based cars for every 1 that runs on electricity. As for more efficiency, typically installed as the first choice to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, I've already documented historical evidence that shows how efficiency gains can actually increase, not decrease, fuel consumption because they lower prices. Cutting oil/gas intensity is not the same as cutting oil/gas demand absolutely. Importantly, the push for more wind and solar will not displace our oil demand because they are strictly sources of electricity, and electricity accounts for just 1% of our oil usage. This is why the U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE) National Energy Modeling System projects that U.S. oil demand will actually rise in the years ahead, here. As for natural gas, more demand stems from its lower emissions, and gas' ability to backup wind and solar power. DOE says our own natural gas usage will increase 14-16% by 2040, not to mention our surging exports. Global Oil/Gas Demand Is Non-Stop What has played out in the U.S. over the past many decades with ongoing development meaning increasing oil/gas usage is materializing globally. Remember, that 6 in every 7 humans live in developing nations today, using a fraction of the energy that we use. So, as poor nations develop, and their economies grow, oil/gas becomes more important. This explains why global oil demand is rising by 1-2% per year. I note here: more oil demand is a steady drumbeat. Electric vehicles are more expensive, which makes them less practical for the world's poor. Producing more oil/gas will power our rapidly growing oil and gas export business, which supplies the world modern energy and reverses our trade deficit. I've shown how gas is the main source of energy to meet climate change change goals, and we must supply: "COP21 Means More Natural Gas and the U.S. Must Help." The International Energy Agency has global gas demand rising 3-4% per year. Simply put, given that oil/gas constitute 65% of all global energy demand, more economic growth inevitably means more oil/gas. National Security Benefits Opening up offshore oil/gas in the U.S. is a long-term strategy to enhance our own national security by increasing our own self-sufficiency and making us a bigger global supplier. Continuously high domestic demand and rising global demand could easily oblige a global supply chain dominated by unfriendly, unstable, and/or undemocratic producers. For example, nearly 75% of the world's proven oil reserves are controlled by a single cartel, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Russia already controls 20-25% of global gas exports, and is looking to supply more even more because gas is becoming the world's go to source of energy to reduce emissions. You need just two recent headlines to see why producing as much of our own oil/gas is so fundamental to national security: Safety Record Impresses Despite heavy increases in transport, spill volumes and incidents have significantly diminished in recent decades. In large part because of advancing technologies, the U.S. oil industry now spills about 1 to 1.5 million gallons per year, down from 17 to 20 million back in the early-1970s. To put this in perspective, 1.5 million gallons is 35,714 barrels of oil. Therefore, in an entire year, we spill less than 0.18% of what the country consumes in a single day. I'll make it simple: given the never-ending complexities of getting oil from thousands of feet under the ground, transporting it, refining it, and then getting it to cars to use it, our oil industry might be the safest of all industries. The U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) has stated the offshore case bluntly: As with all leasing plans, this new plan from the Trump administration requires a lengthy process of environmental review and public comment from stakeholders, including local communities. Clearly, the oil/gas industry has a vested interest in being as safe as possible. In addition to lost product, it costs about $220 to clean up a single gallon of crude oil. The 2010 Deepwater Horizon spill has cost BP some $60-70 billion, explaining why companies have a zero tolerance policy for accidents and spills. Economic Boom The economic boom of the onshore shale oil/gas revolution that started around a decade ago shows how quickly the industry can add literally trillions of dollars to the U.S. economy. Dr. Joseph Mason, a professor at LSU and a Senior Fellow at Penn's Wharton School, concludes here that opening the offshore areas to energy exploration and development could: BOEM estimates 90 billion barrels of undiscovered technically recoverable oil and 330 trillion cubic feet of undiscovered technically recoverable natural gas in the Federal OCS, here. This is nearly triple the proven oil we have and almost equal to all our proven gas. But to be sure, nobody really knows how much offshore oil/gas we have. Advancing technologies will always open up more opportunities tomorrow than we could ever envision today. For example, almost nobody a decade ago could ever have imagined how dramatically our shale oil/gas revolution would transform the world's energy markets. More seismic surveying will be vital in OCS energy development. The latest ones were done 30 years ago, and constant technological evolution has made them obsolete. And we already know that the more our producers are able to explore, the more energy they realize they can produce. To illustrate, North Dakota's Bakken shale play is now yielding 400-440 million barrels of oil per year, when 20 years ago, our best geologists (the U.S. Geological Survey) thought that the play had only 150 million barrels available to produce...in total! 