Well, despite my best efforts, President Trump did not address any of the five issues I laid out for his consideration in a piece yesterday. Go figure. Then again, I did end that piece by saying I really didn't expect any of those things to appear in the speech, so their omission is not a huge disappointment, either. In point of fact, the 90-minute speech hardly touched on energy, a major focal point for the Trump administration during its first year. Although he hinted around about energy policy at several points in his speech, the one direct reference to the energy sector was this shoutout to the nation's struggling coal industry: This should not really come as a surprise to anyone. State of the Union addresses are political events, and politics plays a big role in how they are constructed. The Trump administration is spending a lot of energy (no pun intended) trying to shore up the coal industry. This has been especially true of Energy Secretary Rick Perry, who has had his staff scouting for ways to prevent the closure of older coal-fired power plants.    Trump's shoutout, if nothing else, gave West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin the chance to be the only Democrat in the room standing and applauding, and given that the coal states of West Virgina, Wyoming and Pennsylvania all voted for him in 2016, Trump's mention was politically advantageous. Speaking of politics, it's also important to remember that the coal industry, despite its current troubles, has always spent tons of money on lobbying and other political activities. It is a very common thing for industries that find themselves in hard economic times or on the short end of federal policy-making to work hard to persuade a president to give them positive mention in State of the Union addresses. It is highly likely that the coal industry's still-powerful lobby worked hard for last night's positive comments. The same sort of thing happened several times during the Obama years where the oil and gas industry was concerned. In 2009 and 2010, for example, the industry found itself faced with the potential for natural gas to come out on the short end of the cap-and-trade legislation that was being considered by Congress and the Obama administration. The industry, mostly through the no-longer-existent America's Natural Gas Alliance, worked hard to persuade the Obama advisers to make positive mention of natural gas's environmental benefits in his 2010 State of the Union address and was successful in getting a sentence or two included. It was considered a big win at the time. But now, in the Trump era, it is doubtful that anyone in the oil and gas lobby in Washington spent any real time worrying about whether the president talked about the industry in his address. For the last year, the tide of federal public policy has moved heavily to the oil and gas industry's advantage — a veritable sea change from the Obama years — and the relative health of the industry overall has improved dramatically from the previous three years, as the price for crude oil has firmed up. So it's doubtful that any of the industry's leaders really much cared if it was mentioned in the speech or not. In fact, most in the industry would probably just as soon not be mentioned at all, considering that cable news commentators and major newspapers might portray any mention of oil or natural gas in a negative light. Given that most of the big oil-producing states are also "red" states — California being a notable exception — there was not much for the President to gain politically from talking about oil and gas in any event. Where renewables are concerned, what would the president have said? That his administration works hard every day to find ways to end their mandates and tax preferences? Or that he recently approved the levy of tariffs on imported solar panels, which will end up costing American jobs and slowing the growth of the nation's booming solar industry? Again, there was not much to be gained politically from talking about it. So all in all, the little that President Trump said about energy policy in his State of the Union address was pretty much what we should have all expected. Nothing to see here, folks. Move along. 