Oil major BP, which has posted bumper full-year profits, is playing a "longer wavelength game" that’s underpinned by emerging technologies, scientific agility and a robust downstream portfolio, according to one of the company’s longest-serving executives. In its latest financials published on Tuesday (February 6), BP said its annual profits had more than doubled in 2017, to $6.2 billion, up from $2.6 billion in the previous 12 months; a set of results hailed by Chief Executive Bob Dudley "as one of the strongest years in BP's recent history." The company opened seven new oil and gas fields during 2017 and its oil production rose 12% to 247 million oil barrels per day. What’s more, unlike some of its rivals ExxonMobil and Shell, it also posted strong downstream earnings with an underlying replacement cost profit of $7 billion, up 24% on an annualized basis, and there’s more to come, according to Dame Angela Strank, BP’s Chief Scientist and Head of Downstream Technology.    Strank, who is one of the industry’s most high profile female executives, and widely credited with integrating Castrol Lubricants (acquired by BP in March 2000) with its downstream division, says the company's corporate journey forward would be all about agility and portfolio diversity as it marches relentlessly towards a $30 per barrel breakeven. “We’ve done a lot to make our business fit for purpose whatever the oil price and that is our intent. And even if the oil price were to go up substantially, we would keep our cost base effective to make sure we maximize returns for shareholders. Whether we enjoy a best case oil price scenario, or have to confront a worst case oil price scenario, our efforts are about gearing BP to withstand cyclical volatility.” Strank says a “differentiated customer offer” driven by BP’s downstream business is more than just playing its part for the integrated oil major. “In recent times we have divested a number of refineries, but our current focus is on eight refineries around the world that are really world class in terms of their operations and complexity. We’ve improved the reliability of our assets, and turned around our petrochemicals business to be resilient at any point in the cycle which maybe it wasn’t in the past.” “We’ve got a very strong marketing business and we we’re growing that. Just last year, we went into Mexico – the first oil major to do so, and by the end of 2017 we’ve opened 100 retail points with serious ambitions to grow that going forward. Last week, we made an announcement about entering the fuel retail market in China.” All the while, BP is preparing for what Strank describes as the changing face of human mobility. The company pumps $400 million every year into research and development. “And that’s just for accounting classification; what we spend via BP ventures is often over and above that.” Efforts range from creating biosynthetic lubricants (Castrol Edge) to more efficient fuels (BP Ultimate), digital apps for aviation support like FlyVictor and RocketRoute to Tricoya, a consortium project that facilitates acetylation of wood chips for use in the fabrication of panel products such as medium density fibreboard and particle-boards. “We intend to use our retail and convenience assets around the world, of which we have 18,000 (and growing), to cater to the new advanced mobility world we find ourselves in with not only conventional vehicles, but electric vehicles, connected cars and autonomous vehicles.” And the scientist with over four decades of experience under her belt says BP did not simply succumb to external pressure or merely reacted to a changing landscape. “We’ve been working on these things in my recollection for over a decade. It’s a case of timing and being ready with the solutions when the retail demand is there to grow in that landscape.” Furthermore, Strank says the oil and gas sector has always been about “big data” even before the phrase became common vernacular with the proliferation of digital. “Having worked for 20 years in the upstream end of the business and now 20 years in downstream, I can see it from both perspectives. Both are complementary businesses for BP, both are progressing up the digital curve and undergoing constant transition to a low carbon future.” Sustainability and process efficiencies get intertwined and take the shape of a more streamlined business that delivers value for BP’s shareholders, she adds. “We are making jet fuels from municipal waste; we monitor sensors on rigs, pipelines and refinery masts from remote laptops; drones are increasingly playing a part in enhancing health and safety inspections; data analytics and artificial intelligence are ensuring our plants operate safely to optimum capacity. We have one of world’s biggest super-computing facility in Houston, Texas, USA, 3D and 4D seismic are instrumental in prospection for hydrocarbons and robotics for our site operations. The possibilities are infinite. “At any given point in the financial calendar, my emerging and disruptive technology team is examining 400 fresh avenues with a keen eye on who we could partner with, what we could invest in, which centers of educational excellence we can approach, all the while keeping an eye on costs.” So whether it’s down to operational, engineering, exploration or product development, you can expect more from the company in its pursuit of a lower breakeven, Strank adds. “For BP, it’s about striking the right balance between investment in initiatives to keep the cost base down, and efficiencies to keep the cost base down. It’s my job to keep that balance, and it is a challenge that I relish.” 