After Friday's gut-churning stock market plunge, the question heading into the new week is whether the bond market slaughter might continue. A rise in bond yields to nearly four-year highs appeared to set off the stock market selling Friday, but the 665-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, along with dramatic losses in other stock indices, probably reflected profit taking, as well. On Friday, bond yields appeared to hold all the cards on Wall Street and stocks finished their worst week in two years. By late in the day, the benchmark 10-year Treasury yield had climbed all the way to 2.84% after reaching 2.85% earlier on, a mark last seen in 2014. The 30-year yield pierced 3%. The stock sell-off marked the worst day for stocks since mid-2016, when Wall Street slumped after the Brexit vote. All this worry about rising yields is actually a little surprising, considering many investors and analysts had spent years clamoring for higher rates back when the Fed was holding things steady at zero. Judging from the action Friday, it looks like many investors had been searching for an excuse to take profit after the stock market’s long rally, and the yield rally might have given some people that excuse.    By the end of the day Friday after its 2.12% one-day stumble, the S&P 500 was down nearly 4% from the all-time highs it posted a week earlier, and had fallen back to where it was back on Jan. 11. That’s the first slide of this magnitude in a while, but still isn’t unusual to see in this type of market. There hasn’t been a drop of 5% or more since mid-2016, but if the S&P 500 falls to 2728 (about 34 points below Friday’s close), it will have executed a 5% decline from the all-time high of 2872 posted Jan. 26. It’s something to consider watching as the new week gets underway. That said, a “correction” is typically considered a 10% downturn, so we’re still a long way from that. Keep things in perspective. Even with Friday’s heavy losses, the S&P 500 is still up more than 3% year-to-date, and up more than 21% from a year ago. These sort of downturns are a normal thing, not necessarily something to get overly fearful about. Naturally, investors should consider caution going into the new week, and hopefully many people had already re-allocated their holdings back around the new year to help insulate themselves in case their stock holdings had grown too much due to the long rally. The steady yield rise helped scotch the January rally that had lifted stocks to all-time highs, and also seemed to weigh on previously surging commodity markets. Crude oil fell, though not as much as stocks. Gold, which sometimes rises when stocks lose their grip, also fell 1% as investors seemed intent on shedding positions ahead of the weekend. One exception was the dollar index, which clawed back above 89 by the end of the day after falling below that level earlier. Looking at the week ahead, investors face another major earnings onslaught, with less info tech but more consumer discretionary companies stepping onto stage. Additionally, the government’s deadline for a new budget approaches this coming Thursday, so the week begins under the shadow of another possible shutdown in Washington, D.C. The other question is whether the bond market will keep stamping its boot on stocks. That remains to be seen. Friday’s very impressive January non-farm payrolls report arguably gave yields another lift, as it showed January hourly wages rising 0.3%. That was the second month in a row of 0.3% wage increases, and hourly wages are now up 2.9% year-over-year, the highest growth rate since May 2009. At the same time, the economy added 200,000 jobs in January, a stronger tally than the average Wall Street estimate for 180,000. December jobs growth also got revised upward by 12,000. Those were really strong numbers that could offer more evidence of an economy truly beginning to roar. The concern seems to be whether it’s roaring a little too loud for the Fed’s liking. The Fed, of course, has power to step in and try to splash a bit of cold water on the economy by hiking rates. At this point, odds of a March hike seem pretty baked in, with the futures market indicating a nearly 78% chance. The Fed has projected three hikes this year, but the market is pricing in higher chances for a fourth, and that could be worrying some investors. Right now, futures prices project about a 25% chance of four hikes this year instead of three. Even if a fourth doesn’t occur in calendar year 2018, chances for a January 2019 hike are more than 50/50, according to the futures market. Whether or not we get four hikes this year or by early next, that would put the Fed’s benchmark interest rate at 2% or above in the not far-distant future. Normally, 2% interest rates wouldn’t sound particularly onerous for stocks. After all, most of the 1990s rally, for instance, happened with interest rates well above that. However, it’s arguable we’re in a new paradigm today after so many years of near-zero rates. Low rates helped fuel this historic stock rally, and some investors could be worried that higher borrowing costs could start making current price-to-earnings (P/E) ratios for stocks look a little more expensive. All that said, whatever happens with bonds, there’s still a new week ahead with a fresh batch of earnings reports to watch. This, along with rising yields and possible noise from Washington, could potentially bring more volatility, and the VIX climbed above 17 by the end of the day Friday, its highest level since a brief spike last August. Investors should consider a prudent approach to trading this coming week considering the high volatility, continued concerns about interest rates, and possible fireworks coming out of the capitol. From an earnings standpoint, the big ones to watch include General Motors before the open Tuesday, followed by Chipotle and Disney after Tuesday’s closing bell. Tesla is due out after Wednesday’s close, followed by Twitter before the open Thursday. Generally, it’s a little quieter on earnings going forward, and this coming week is the last really crowded one of the season. Research firm CFRA estimates a 12.3% year-over-year earnings increase for S&P 500 companies in Q4, with 10 of the 11 sectors expected to report positive overall comparisons. Taking a technical view, the S&P 500 index fell through a couple layers of key support, first at 2825 and then at 2798, as the old week advanced. Support below that is at around 2736, CFRA said. The late-week slide hit nearly every stock sector, with consumer discretionary the only one making any advance as of midday Friday. Small-caps were also lower, and European stocks floundered as well. European stocks are now slightly down year-to-date. This coming week is a bit light on data, with the standout report probably being Tuesday’s Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS) for December. Wholesale inventories for December are due Friday. Silver Lining? If there’s something good to say about the selling on Wall Street late last week, maybe it’s that at least oil prices took part in the losses. While that’s not welcome if you’re in the energy sector, it could take some pressure off the rest of the economy. Gas prices recently climbed above $3 a gallon across much of the West Coast, and typically gas costs rise further once spring and summer come along and more people take driving trips. The Dow Jones Transportation Average — sometimes seen as a key derivative of broader economic and stock market trends — has fallen more than 400 points since mid-January, about a 4% drop, likely due in part to major airlines, trucking firms, and railways facing higher fuel costs. At this point, many airlines have hedged some of their fuel costs, but eventually higher prices could catch up, perhaps forcing them to raise fares, analysts said. Crude oil traded late Friday down more than 1% at just above $65 a barrel. That’s still a long way from about $53 at this time last year. Mind the Gap: Late last year, some investors grew worried about a narrowing gap in the yield curve, which can sometimes signal pending economic weakness. For a while, the gap between 2-year U.S. Treasury yields and 10-year yields fell below 60 basis points, and some people even started talking about the possibility of an inverted yield curve at some point, which is when shorter-dated bond yields climb above longer-dated ones. Maybe they jumped the gun a little, because the curve has steadied and even grown a bit over the last month. As of Friday, the gap between “2’s” and “10’s” had climbed all the way back to nearly 70 basis points. Mind the gap, as they say in the London Underground, because the yield curve can sometimes be an underlying factor affecting the broader market. Good News Behind Higher Yields: When borrowing costs steadily rise like they have lately, it often reflects deep-rooted economic factors. Most of the data coming in late last week seemed to reinforce ideas of a robust U.S. economy, with the jobs report just one marker. Factory orders, which climbed 1.7% in December, were another. Additionally, final University of Michigan consumer sentiment for January at 95.7 was above the preliminary number and above Wall Street analysts’ consensus. Earlier in the week, we saw a solid Chicago PMI report. The confidence data could be particularly revealing, as it gives a direct insight into what might be motivating consumers, whose spending makes up about 70% of the economy. “The key takeaway from the report is that it revealed consumers are being motivated more to make purchase decisions by feelings of job security and growth in wages and financial assets, as opposed to discounted prices and interest rates,” Briefing.com said Friday. TD Ameritrade® commentary for educational purposes only. Member SIPC.   