Value investors have always scanned the list of stocks hitting 52-week lows for potential bargain buys. In these levitating markets that list is not a long one, but is a terrific indicator of market sentiment toward individual groups. If one screens out all the muni bond closed-end funds and ETFs (muni bond prices are down because Treasury yields have risen) one gets down to the nitty-gritty of stocks this market just plain hates. I have written about the oil exploration companies (oil E&Ps) in several Forbes columns, and while crude prices have pulled back slightly in the past few days, oil prices above $64/barrel are still highly constructive for that group. The volatility of oil E&Ps mystifies me and I am sure other trades, as well, but that group did rally on oil's recent jump, as I noted in this Forbes article. Seemingly immune from such rallies, however are the oil E&Ps' cousins, the natural gas exploration and production companies (natural gas E&Ps.) These stocks have been absolute kryptonite for long investors, and the idea for this article came from seeing several of the larger players — Southwestern Energy, Range Resources, Gulfport Energy — on the list of 52-week lows this week.    Why? The first instinct has to be to look at the price of the underlying commodity, and natural gas prices have pulled back sharply this week. But analyzing the natural gas futures market — the easiest way is to look at a chart of "NG.1," the generic front-month futures contract — shows sharp volatility is the rule. The natural gas futures contract was nicknamed "the widowmaker" by some sharp-tongued energy trader decades ago, and that volatility rarely subsides. What's interesting, though, is the narrow channel in which that volatility occurs. I'm seeing the front-month natural gas contract quoted at $3.02/mmBTU as I write this versus a figure of $3.12/mmBTU on this date one year ago. So prices have dropped this week, but over the longer-term haven't deviated from the "$3-ish" level that is cash flow positive for natural gas E&Ps. Of course, the outlook for commodities is based on the future, and today's energy media are full of stories of weather models predicting warmer weather over the next 14 days. The zeitgeist shifts so quickly in the energy pits that I find it helpful to look at actual facts, not weather models that are no more accurate than the Farmer's Almanac. Demand for natural gas is driven by heating and cooling use, and it has inarguably been a cold winter here in the Northeast. New York State data shows that New York City produced 889 heating degree days in December 2017, well above December 2016's 759 degree days and the NYSERDA's calculation of the "normal" December level of 836 degree days. January data has not yet been released, but the constant hissing of the radiator in my New York City apartment tells me that the the January 2018 degree days figure is going to be much higher than the 780 days recorded in January 2017. I believe that increase will be at least 50%. The cold winter has resulted in inventory drawdowns in every major U.S market. Total U.S. natural gas inventories sat at 2.296 billion cubic feet (bcf) last week versus a level of 2.815 bcf last January and the 5-year average of 2.782 bcf for this time of year. That natural gas inventories are threatening the minimum seasonal levels in recent years is not reflected in today's natural gas price, although it was last week when natural gas prices hit $3.56/mmBTU. Honestly, supply and demand don't change nearly as fast as natural gas traders' position books, but a low level of inventories has to be good for producers of any commodity. That certainly is not evident in the stock prices of the natural gas E&Ps. This is a brief list of closing stock prices on January 30, 2018 versus January 20, 2017 for the group, and the carnage is quite evident. So, if you have the stomach to handle the volatility and are interested in an industry in which demand is clearly outstripping supply, the natural gas E&Ps are a great value play here. The toughest thing about such a trade is finding an absolute bottom. I have been doing this for 25 years and rarely do so. If the longer-term value of the company is not reflected in the current share price, though, it is a buy. Patient investors know that and will be rewarded eventually. I believe natural gas E&Ps offer such an opportunity today.   