Europe-based Evgeniy Kozarenko is the CEO of NagriTech – Natural Agricultural Technologies, a company that fuses agricultural science with cutting edge technology to create organic plant nutrient products that help farmers in Africa and other emerging market countries to create nutritious food that is plentiful, affordable, and growable. Nagritech, which hopes to avoid the high administrative costs and inherent illiquidity of emerging market Agribusiness, in Africa, is coming up with an innovative new funding method. The company is offering an Initial Coin Offering (ICO) tied to land, a well-desired asset that Kozarenko believes can offer stability in the tumultuous cryptocurrency market. I recently caught up with Kozarenko in London where he spoke to me briefly about the promise of agro amidst global commodity crises and the potential for an effective token within a globalizing marketplace.    So far, NagriTech has poured over $5 million and 7 years of energies into research and testing in over 10 countries for their product. Why invest in cryptocurrencies?  Having invested heavily in developing an organic and nature-minded approach to modern day sustainable agriculture, NAgriTech promises to increase optimal yields using natural, sustainable approaches and sells itself as the Agriculture product of the future. To finance future operations, Nagritech is turning to cryptocurrency. Now common practice in the Agriculture business dictates that farmers often look for long-term financing solutions and payments can be (and in fact are) often deferred by over a year, making financing operations difficult. The old solution, IPOs, or Initial Public Offerings are long and costly affairs, often forcing the company to raise $1-2 million in administrative and legal fees, with results not guaranteed. Why do you believe the future of fundraising is by way of crypto? Cryptocurrency helps developing nations struggling with inflation and make payments even while their fiat currency plummets in value, as seen in Venezuela and to a lesser extent, in Mexico, India, Peru and Brazil. NagriTech plans to provide a 10% discount when purchasing its product in NagriCoin, and pledges 20% of each sale to purchasing coins off the market and driving up demand. This communal approach points back to NagriTech’s commitment that good and nutritious food must be plentiful, affordable, and growable. However, NagriTech is optimistic about the future of crypto. I think the ‘real’ financial sector will be coming in heavily into the ITO market in the next few years. That will help to fund small ‘real’ sector companies, which will boost a globalizing economy. But how can you stabilize a cryptocurrency marketplace to date constantly in flux? NagriTech as a Team hopes to bring stability to the cryptocurrency market by tying the currency to agriculture and land, and thus helping avoid the greatest pitfall of resource-driven economies – market volatility. Countries such as Venezula show us the dangers of relying on oil for economic stability. Oil prices can rise and fall, but land will always be in demand, and a cryptocurrency tied to land is very attractive to investors. Additionally, NagriTech is planning on gaining investors’ trust with full transparency, delivering all facts, test results and analysis in a simple fashion in the aim of helping even those investors unfamiliar with agriculture to see the company’s growth potential. NagriTech stands at the frontier to an exciting new era – large-scale, crowd-funded, organic agriculture, by the people, for the people. With funding being raised from the very people that stand to benefit most from the company’s success, NAgriTech hopes to bridge the gap between a real sector economy and the digital world of investors.   