Argus Research, well known for its high-quality research, does not advise companies, broker trades or manage money. As such, the independent research firm’s analysts can make unbiased and impartial judgments about the companies and stocks they cover. Here, 10 analysts from Argus Research who often contribute to MoneyShow.com highlight a favorite stock for 2018. Stephen Biggar  Morgan Stanley MS +0%  In our view, Morgan Stanley has made significant progress in lowering its risk profile, strengthening its capital buffers and reducing earnings volatility. In particular, the Wealth Management segment, which has a more stable revenue and profit profile, now accounts for nearly 50% of revenues, and risk-weighted assets continue to decline.    Results in this segment have also been helped by the company's focus on high-net worth and ultra-high net worth clients, which are seeing the fastest growth. We expect Morgan Stanley’s wealth management franchise to continue to benefit from improvement in the value of financial assets. Meanwhile, growth in compliance costs for Dodd-Frank and other measures has subsided, allowing for margin improvement. A lighter regulatory environment should also allow for a focus on business-line expansion. Lastly, improving regulatory capital levels should lead to strong increases in the share buyback program and dividends. In June 2017, Morgan Stanley announced that the Federal Reserve did not object to a 25% increase in the quarterly dividend, to $0.25 per share, beginning in the third quarter. The yield is about 2.0%. We believe that Morgan Stanley will have several more years of above-average dividend increases as capital levels improve. Joseph Bonner  ServiceNow NOW +0%  The company markets to enterprises in industries ranging from financial services and consumer products to healthcare and technology. It provides value to customers by making IT services, which touch every area of a business from HR to field sales, more manageable and efficient. This lowers a client’s total cost of ownership through increased efficiency. The company is benefiting from an expanding addressable market, with enterprises increasingly relying on SaaS IT management, and NOW expanding into adjacent services such as IT security and analytics. The company is also experiencing expanding margins amid rising average contract value. ServiceNow’s offerings benefit from the secular trend away from the enterprise data center and toward the more easily scalable and cost-effective cloud software-as-a service model. ServiceNow remains unprofitable on a GAAP basis but has posted non-GAAP earnings over the last eleven quarters. We see a solid revenue and profit outlook over the next few years underpinning valuation. John Eade  Ecolab ECL +0%  Ecolab acquired Nalco Holding Company, a provider of water, energy and air improvement solutions in 2011, and Champion Technologies, an upstream oil and gas products and services company, in 2013. In February 2017, it completed the purchase of Laboratoires Anios, a producer of antimicrobial products for the healthcare, food and hospitality industries. Earnings have been suppressed by weakness in energy, but higher oil prices on OPEC production trimming and demand recovery should lead to better operating results as the business cycle matures. Ecolab has paid cash dividends for 79 straight years and is also historically a strong late-cycle performer. In our view, the company has prospects for above-average revenue and earnings growth over the long term, and the stock appears attractively valued at current levels. Ecolab has an impressive history of dividend payments and growth. The shares are a suitable core holding in a diversified portfolio. Christopher Graja We are reiterating our buy rating on Lowe’s Companies Inc. We believe Lowe’s has the ability to boost comparable-sales growth and slightly improve gross margins with private brands, better merchandising, collaboration with suppliers and strategic use of the supply chain. We believe that these outcomes will be bolstered by gradually rising home prices, a growing job market and improved execution of the business plan. The company also has a shareholder-friendly record of share buybacks and dividend increases. Although sales of new homes are on track to grow for the sixth straight year in 2017, we believe that the market is still in the middle innings of a long upcycle that will continue to be a tailwind for Lowe’s. Both the supply of new homes and the demand for homes have been muted, which is the reason that the market hasn’t already become overheated. Going forward, we expect mortgage rates to remain affordable and we expect an improving job market to boost household formation as the millennial generation leaves the nest. Higher interest rates do less damage to the housing market if they are being driven by stronger economic conditions rather than by a spike in inflation expectations. Home prices are only now reaching 2006 peak levels and affordability is still positive. In addition, about 70% of U.S. homes are more than 25 years old and likely in need of upgrades and repairs. The National Association of Home Builders Remodeling Index indicates improving conditions. Harvard University’s Leading Indicator of Remodeling Activity also points to strong growth over the next year. The company is working with vendors to produce more innovative products and improve product displays, while providing better values for customers. Management is also using analytical tools to cater to specific customers, such as professionals, and to tailor the product assortment to local markets. Based on Lowe’s growth prospects, financial strength, real estate ownership, and prospects for improvement in the housing market, we believe that the shares are attractive at current levels. Gary Hovis Eversource Energy, formerly Northeast Utilities NU +0%  The company continues to benefit from its additional investment in its electric transmission system. We think that Eversource Energy, with its strong finances and solid management execution, will outperform most other utilities in a rising rate environment. We note that the company has exited the non-regulated side of its business, which we view as a strong positive, and is keeping O&M expenses in check. Utilities as a group are heavily debt-financed and aggregate interest charges at Eversource are likely to rise as the Fed raises interest rates. In addition, in a rising interest rate environment, equity investors seeking income often move away from utility shares and turn to the bond market, as fixed-income rates begin to rise. Even so, we think that Eversource Energy, with its strong fundamentals, will weather well further interest rate hikes. Management expects the transmission segment to generate 40%-45% of profits by the end of 2017, and plans to invest approximately $1.7 billion in transmission projects over the next three years. We expect continued cost savings from the merger with NSTAR. In addition, we think that the company’s gas distribution business will benefit from customer conversions to gas heating from oil heating. In our view, Eversource shares are suitable for long-term investors seeking dividend income and the potential for moderate capital appreciation. Overall, we believe that Eversource is committed to optimizing the value of its portfolio of regulated electric and gas utility businesses, and that it has the potential to generate total annual returns of 5%-6% over the next few years. Jim Kelleher Arista Networks Inc. is bringing networking into the age of the cloud, which can bring huge efficiency and scale benefits to legacy networking environments. Arista Networks is a leading supplier of cloud networking solutions for internet companies, cloud service providers and next-generation data centers. It generates the largest portion of its revenue from switching products that incorporate its Extensible Operating System (EOS) software. While Arista currently mainly works with enterprise customers, there is a large barely tapped potential with service providers, ISPs and cloud titans. Arista has experienced unforeseen demand for initial 100-gig routing and switching deployments. This has kept Arista’s annual growth in the 50% range, compared with 20%-30% for other cloud-sensitive vendors. The company is also experiencing continued sharp growth in overseas markets that are behind in cloud deployments, while also benefiting from its multi-vertical approach spanning cloud SP, carrier and enterprise networks. We believe the company, which is battling Cisco Systems CSCO +0%  Arista is in the habit of not just beating but smashing expectations, as the company's next-generation solutions appeal to a fast-growing customer base. Revenue and EPS have been growing faster than share price and we believe the shares are attractively valued. Jacob Kilstein We are reiterating our Buy rating on American Tower AMT +0%  We expect mobile data usage to grow 50% annually over the next five years, which should increase the demand for tower leases. American Tower has a solid record of growth and profitability, and stands out among the publicly traded tower operators based on its size, margins, FFO growth rate and high-quality assets. We also like its international expansion efforts. American Tower has experienced strong organic growth and benefited from accretive acquisitions, as well as from 40% annual growth in wireless data usage. The company has increased its quarterly cash dividend by 22% over the past year to $0.66 per share, or $2.64 annually, for a yield of about 1.9%. American Tower continues to target annualized dividend growth of more than 20%. The stock trades at 19.8-times our 2018 AFFO per share estimate, below the five-year average of 23.8 but above the peer median of 18.9. We like the company’s growth prospects and believe that a higher price/AFFO multiple is appropriate based on the company's stronger revenue and cash flow growth. Our revised target of $170 implies a multiple of 22.0-times our 2018 AFFO per share estimate, still below the five-year average. Bill Selesky  Praxair PX +0%  We view its current operating environment as favorable based on strong global manufacturing trends, which include global industrial production rising at 2.8% through 2020: higher volumes in electronics, metals & manufacturing; and in Asia, new plant start-ups, Chinese project wins and strong end-markets. We believe that Praxair remains well positioned to deliver stronger EPS growth based on its mix of high-growth businesses, which have generated above-industry-average margins, earnings and returns on invested capital. The company has size and scale, operating in 50 countries and servicing 30+ industries. The company’s Linde merger is on track and we see the new company prioritizing shareholder returns. In March 2017, Praxair raised its quarterly dividend by 5% to $0.7875 per share, or $3.15 annually, for a yield of about 2.1%. The company has raised its dividend annually for the last 24 years. For more investment ideas, click here for "MoneyShow’s 35th Annual Top Stock Picks Report: The 100 Best Stocks for 2018." John Staszak  Constellation Brands STZ +0%  The company also owns the rights to brew and market Modelo Mexican beers (including Corona ) in the United States. With more than 12% of the U.S. market and nearly 2% of the global market, Constellation is the world’s largest wine producer and should continue to benefit from economies of scale. We have a favorable view of recent additions to this company’s brand portfolio, including as it emerges as a leader in craft beer. We see its brands positioned to grow more rapidly than those of other alcoholic beverage companies. It has a favorable product mix, and strong consumer demand for Corona and craft beers are driving growth in free cash flow and margin expansion. Capacity additions are expected to temper growth just slightly but will have long-term benefits. Looking ahead, we expect sales and earnings growth at Constellation to be driven by new products, new packaging and line extensions. Based on our expectations for greater-than-expected cost synergies, management's guidance, and positive earnings surprises the past seven quarters, we are raising our FY18 EPS estimate from $8.40 to $8.55. For FY19, we are raising our estimate from $9.20 to $9.35. David Toung Integra Life Sciences Holdings Corp. is a leader in medical implants and instruments for neurosurgery, tissue regeneration and wound care. The company’s products are used in cranial and spinal procedures, peripheral nerve repair, small bone and joint injuries, and the repair and reconstruction of soft tissue. We believe Integra is positioned to benefit from a bounce-back in procedural volumes in 2018 following hurricane-related outages impacting 2017. We also have a positive view of the October 2017 Codman Neurosurgery acquisition, which added neurosurgery products and expanded overseas sales. Integra Life Sciences trades at 20.6-times our 2018 EPS estimate, above the average of 19.1 for peers in our med-tech coverage universe. However, we believe this premium is warranted given Integra’s strong sales growth, steady flow of new products, success in integrating acquisitions and rising margins. As the smallest med-tech company in our coverage universe (by market cap), Integra is also moving the needle on revenue and EPS growth from its recent M&A deals. Learn more about Argus Research Top Stock Picks for 2018 and Equity Market Outlook. 