Note: The author owns shares in Franco-Nevada Corp. It has become something of a mantra that bull markets do not die of old age. They are ended by recessions. As we sit today, virtually no one sees a downturn on the horizon. Even the stodgy International Monetary Fund says the world is experiencing the “broadest synchronized global growth upsurge since 2010.” They expect world growth to be a robust 3.9 per cent both this year and next. Here in the U.S., positive economic momentum is being aided by the most pro-business government since the 1920s. Massive corporate tax cuts and reduced regulation on business is helping to arouse animal spirits. As the markets keep making new highs, and the value of your portfolio continues to rise, enjoy and cherish this moment. This is how a Bull Market is supposed to feel. It is as good as it gets! In the context of an investing lifetime, however, times like these are fleeting and rare. They are always followed by volatile and scary markets. To paraphrase one of the twentieth century’s great investors, John Templeton, now is the time to be most worried about your investments.    One can only speculate on when the bull market will end. Perhaps everyone is focused on the wrong thing and the next downturn will not be caused by a recession? Perhaps financial markets will decouple from the real economy? Perhaps China will finally have its “Minsky Moment” and take the global economy down with it? It is anyone’s guess. What to do right now? In thinking about what comes next, and how to position for it, looking to where we are in the business cycle is a good place to start. I have no idea if we are in the seventh inning or the ninth inning of the current expansion, but I happen to believe we have entered the late-cycle phase. If you agree, then an observation by Jeffrey Gundlach of DoubleLine is particularly noteworthy. He says that every recession for the past half century has been preceded by a big rise in commodity prices, such as oil, metals, wheat and so forth. He also argues that commodities are currently “cheap,” and makes the case for a multi-year outperformance of commodities versus stocks. As an actionable concept, there is complexity in this theme. Commodities are rightfully viewed as speculative because trading them involves leverage. They do not produce income and unlike stocks that produce free-cash-flow, the value of a commodity does not compound over time. It is a zero-sum endeavor and explains why a commodity like wheat is roughly at the same price level as it was in 1980. If trading commodity contracts is out of the question, and it should be for most investors, there are other ways to get exposure to commodities. For example, owning an oil company like Exxon Mobil, or an agricultural firm like Archer Daniels Midland, or a gold miner like Barrick Gold will give you indirect exposure. This is the path many investors take. The problem with this approach is you run the risk of having the right thesis, but the wrong vehicle to execute on the thesis. Management in these types of companies often respond to supply/demand dynamics after the fact. Many have a history of using cash-flow generated during good times to increase capacity (buying high) and jettisoning assets when the cycle is poor (selling low). This destroys shareholder value. One way to gain direct exposure to a commodity without using leverage and without worrying about value-destroying management teams, is through debt-free royalty trusts and royalty companies. Many of them pay an income stream to boot. Royalty trusts own rights to the production and sale of a natural resource. Publicly traded, they often benefit from a low-cost structure typically due to having small management teams. Sometimes the “employees” consist solely of a law firm that serves to administer terms of the trust. The administrator in turn keeps tabs on the production company hired to extract the resource, passing any profits onto trust holders. An oil royalty trust is like having a producing oil-well in your backyard. If it is debt-free and perpetual, though you may not get any income from it during periods of low prices, you have the “safety” of knowing the asset will not disappear into the hands of creditors. During bouts of high prices, any revenue above the cost of extraction will be pure profit. Two examples include, Permian Basin Royalty Trust (PBT) and Sabine Royalty Trust (SBR). The Permian Basin Royalty Trust owns and controls the mineral rights of properties in the heart of the Permian Basin, an ancient sedimentary formation that straddles the western border of Texas and the southeastern corner of New Mexico. Oil first came into production there in the 1920s. Sabine Royalty Trust owns interests in certain producing and proved undeveloped oil and gas properties located in Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma but mostly Texas (some 80%).   Both Trusts are sensitive to the price of oil. Five years ago when oil was above $90 a barrel, Permian Basin traded in the low-to-mid teens and was making a robust per share distribution every month. It paid out $1.02 in 2014. As oil was plummeting to below $30 a barrel in 2015, the trust cut its monthly distribution 65% and the stock fell to about $5. The history of Sabine Royalty is similar. The Trust traded above $60 during 2014, only to see its units fall below $27 some eighteen months later. The Trust's distribution to unit holders mirrored its price drop. The monthly payout would ultimately be cut by some 50%. The price of both Trusts have risen with the recent recovery in crude oil, and the accompanying increase in their monthly distributions. PBT's distribution rose to $0.63 last year from $0.35 in 2015, for example. Both Trusts remain at a discount to where their units traded the last time oil prices were at current levels. In the mining industry, royalty companies also serve as a source of financing for a production company but the way they operate is structured differently. A gold royalty company, for example, will simply agree to buy a proportion of future production from a miner at heavily discounted prices, once the mine becomes operational. Franco-Nevada is the blue-chip gold royalty company. As Merrill Lynch says, it is a core holding for investors who want exposure to gold, and it is “built for all gold markets.” The company reaps exploration success without the operating risks associated with mining. It will benefit if gold prices rise and has a built-in margin-of-safety should gold prices decline. The company is debt free and pays a modest dividend. 