Venezuela is a failed state. Despite oil prices doubling since their lows in January 2016, the state-owned PDVSA is in no better shape. The economy is in even worse shape. The political situation is tenuous. And on Wednesday, Barclays and Nomura both put out a note warning investors that the situation is getting worse by the day. How many times now have investors been told that Venezuela is getting worse? Let's say six. They're right, of course. Venezuela is not improving. The economy is contracting. Inflation is quadruple digits, at best. The currency is basically useless, so useless in fact, that even president Nicolas Maduro has tried selling the idea of creating a crypto coin backed by the country's oil. It was rejected by Congress. Oddly enough, had they approved it, Venezuela is running thin on oil anyway. Venezuela is no longer a serious oil power in Latin America nor within OPEC. PDVSA is being crushed by this ideological, anti-Yankee, anti-imperialist, Marxist government. Oil supply disruptions have moved from probable risk to hard-core reality. Barclays Capital's commodities and emerging markets research team, led by Warren Russell in New York, said they believe the situation "could worsen." That has got to be the understatement of the year on Venezuela. It is worsening. Since December 2016, the country’s oil production has declined at a pace comparable to all other OPEC members...combined. The political crisis will not abate. Maduro has basically said that viable opposition candidates will not be allowed to challenge him in snap elections held in April. Maduro was up for re-election in October. To some observers, it appears Maduro wants to solidify his rule before he is ousted as the country's financial situation is seen deteriorating. The economy is in a shambles. Some neighborhoods in Caracas have taken to bartering. Oil was once Venezuela’s saving grace and PDVSA's cash cow. A strong PDVSA meant a strong Venezuelan state because PDVSA was the government's ATM machine. But output will likely remain in a downward spiral this year, BarCap says, although month over month production declines are likely to abate from December 2017 levels. They expect production to average 1.43 million barrels a day this year, down nearly 700,000 barrels a day compared with figures directly reported to OPEC for 2017. Barclays thinks Venezuela's oil production reaches a low point of 1.35 million barrels a day in the second half of 2018. As a result of this, PDVSA is in selective default on 8 bond issues: including the 2020s, 2022s, and 2017s. The 2022s are 44 days late. The country has over $1 billion in overdue interest payments, which is more than 10% of the country's central bank reserves at this point. There has been no official communication from the government on any other coupon payments and lengthy delays are now prompting review on whether the oil firm has entered into permanent default. If so, bond holders will accelerate and request principal payment. Of course, they will not get their principal payments, at least not immediately. "The markets will recognize declining probability of payment each day that passes without receipt of funds or notification from the intermediaries," says Siobhan Morden, a managing director at Nomura in New York. Defaults stress erodes the margin of flexibility for Maduro and exposes a worse phase of cashflow woes for the bills the country owes in dollars. Bond traders are waiting for a signal from the Emerging Markets Trade Association over the next few days, or weeks. They have been recommending investors trade the bond flat, and not accelerate. The mounting legal risks of a hard default would represent a potential source of pressure with foreign investors potentially interrupting PDVSA operations overseas and thus compromise the cashflow necessary to fund the government. Courts could seize assets, for instance, in a hard default situation. As president, Maduro is surely aware of this. That cashflow stress represents the single source of pressure on Maduro. The military rank and file have backed Maduro so far, but as money wears thin, so is their patience. Many of them still feel an allegiance to the Socialists United Party, created by party figurehead and local legend Hugo Chavez. "We are on high alert," says Morden. Cashflow stress is the key catalyst for Venezuelan regime change over the next 12 months. Maybe even sooner. 