It would be a rather big surprise if the Treasury opted to sanction Russian stocks and bonds on Monday. That's when we learn of the new group of individuals that will be added to the sanctions list that already includes dozens, including Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin. A new update comes out today. Over the last three months, Washington, D.C. think tanks like The Atlantic Council have been compiling a list of men they believe have benefited from the war in East Ukraine. Others think tanks have taken to targeting the entire family members of oligarchs with close ties to Vladimir Putin, like Arkady Rotenburg. Last August, when Trump begrudgingly signed the latest sanctions bill into law, Congress requested State, Treasury and the Director of National Intelligence to report on whether it was wise to sanction Russian government bonds and the securities of sanctioned companies. Russia's blue chip oil and gas companies, and its prime lenders like Sberbank and VTB Bank, are sanctioned. "If sanctions become more aggressive and if you sanctioned bonds retroactively, you'd force investors to sell," says Gorky Urquieta, a bond fund manager with Neuberger Berman. He is overweight Russia. "Venezuela is a good example of how to sanction sovereign debt. Their sanctions are against new debt, not existing debt. Russia rarely issues new debt to foreigners anyway, so it wouldn't hurt them. If you sanctioned bonds, you'd just make things more confusing for American holders. You'd hurt American investors more." Russian stocks are down 0.7% in the pre-market, based on the VanEck Russia (RSX) fund. But that shouldn't be taken as a signal. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is down 1.25% in the pre-market. The sanctions report today, assuming it is released on time, will highlight new individuals, their business structure in Russia and Ukraine, and their economic ties to the U.S., such as real estate and other financial holdings. The report will also highlight the potential impact of sanctions on Russian sovereign debt, thus giving the market a good indication of which direction the wind is blowing at Treasury for those securities in the weeks ahead. No new sanctions are expected to be imposed today. Bank of American Merrill Lynch analysts said in a traders note this morning that they believed any new sanctions would require a trigger that impacts U.S.-Russia relations. Investors should be aware that Russian news is always on a hair-trigger alert. The new sanctions law no longer chastises Russia solely for its involvement in the Donbass region of east Ukraine, but also for "election meddling" and for Russian support of Syrian president Bashar Assad. Suffice to say, any negative revelations from the independent counsel on Russian collusion with the Trump campaign would be a trigger. As would the whims of the intelligence community with regards to Russian action in Syria. Other geopolitical matters like Iran and North Korea should not be ruled out as potential negatives. Russian risk has not entirely cooled. The market is benefiting from higher oil and gas prices rather than politics. Sanctions began in 2014. The U.S. targeted individuals involved in helping Crimea secede from Ukraine in March of that year. Shortly after, Russia got involved in separatist movements in east Ukraine, primarily in the Donbass region. The Donbass is now a mini-war zone with thousands of dead and injured and businesses hijacked by rivals or separatist leaders in the region. In March 2017, System Capital Management Group, owned by Ukraine's richest man, the billionaire Rinat Akhmetov, lost total control of its assets located in the separatist controlled areas of Luhansk and Donetsk oblasts. These are two of the biggest industrial towns located in along the eastern border of Russia. Their leadership is part of a new post-Soviet movement to recover old territories, now dubbed Novorossiya, or New Russia. It is hard to tell the players without a program in this part of the world, with many officials and oligarchs often playing both sides of the field. See: Russians Worried About Secret 'Blacklist' Circulating In Washington -- Forbes Who Profits From The Broken Ukraine-Russia Peace Accord -- Forbes In Russia, Locals 'Exhausted' For Being Blamed For Everything -- Forbes "The blockade of Donbas was organized by a Ukrainian member of parliament named Semen Semenchenko and the illegal so-called nationalization of our assets were triggered by this blockade," a spokeswoman for SCM Group said in an email. She called them "criminal actions." Such activity is common place in east Ukraine, with Washington passing the bulk of the blame on Putin. Until there is some form of settlement in Ukraine, the sanctions will continue. A worsening of the situation there is likely to pressure the Treasury to add more men to the sanctions list. It is believed that sanctions hurt the funders by making it illegal for them to access money held in U.S. banks. Less funding, in theory, means it is harder to pay private militias, as well as bribes to get officials in government to carry on with the policies preferred by a select few. Think tanks in Washington have mentioned names like Andrey Kostin, president and chairman of the board of VTB Bank. Others include Alexei Miller, CEO of Gazprom, and to a lesser extent, Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska, both of whom are considered to be on a "gray list" circulating around the think tank world at this time. 