Master limited partnerships involved in the energy midstream business, which includes oil and gas transportation, processing and storage, weren't exactly great stock performers last year. The Alerian MLP Index, their primary benchmark, was down 13% without dividend yields and 6.5% even with dividend yields. That surprised a lot of analysts, including those at Raymond James, which had expected a nominal gain of 8% to 10% last year plus a 7% yield given increasing visibility into volume growth at low risk. "Sentiment remained beyond despondent," they lamented in a recent report. Despite a rising interest rate environment and corporate tax reform overhang, the firm believes this year may be better for these investment vehicles. Its analysts think longer-term, improving fundamentals across an overhauled capital allocation platform should result in better returns on invested capital with lower risk. "Thus, as returns improve, so should fund flows (all else being equal)," they said. The firm thinks valuations also should improve regardless of oil prices as the market "de-risks the thesis" that $55 to $65 per barrel oil is enough to support the U.S. production growth that's expected over the next three years. Noting the "bullish tailwind" to January’s performance, the analysts say a mix of stable and growing distributions with lower risk – along with an 8% to 10% price appreciation forecast – should keep the index yield near 7% this coming year. They also offer up their 10 top stock picks for investors to consider among the multitude of midstream MLP's out there. The names include Antero Midstream Partners and parent Antero Midstream GP as well as MPLX. In the natural gas gathering world, they say these entities have the most running room in the Marcellus/Utica region in Appalachia and the northeastern U.S. with much of their growth coming from their joint-owned Sherwood assets in West Virginia. The analysts' other favorites include Enterprise Products Partners, which is exporting more and more product (although they note it's encountered delays getting its Mont Belvieu propane dehydrogenation plant online); and Kinder Morgan, whose Gulf Coast Express pipeline project in West Texas' Permian Basin is moving forward with 85% in shipper commitments (from Apache, Pioneer Resources and Exxon Mobil's XTO) with a start-up date expected by October of next year.