The relentless uptick in U.S. oil production, in light of firmer oil prices and industry efficiency gains, made it all but inevitable that the country would cap the 10 million barrels per day (bpd) mark at some point in the first quarter of 2018. However, as it transpires, the market did not even have to wait that long, for the said level was breached in November 2017, according to the latest U.S. Energy Information Administration data. In its monthly assessment, the EIA said on Wednesday (January 31) that production rose by 384,000 bpd that month to 10.038 million bpd; just short of a record high of 10.044 million bpd recorded in November 1970. More noticeably, in the period that the oil producers’ cartel OPEC first mooted, and then eventually decided in concert with 10 non-OPEC producers, to keep a collective 1.8 million bpd output cut on the table for 2018, U.S. production rose quite steadily in tandem in anticipation of precisely such a move.    In barrel terms, that was nearly 850,000 bpd in the three months to November; a direct result of reassuring market rancor. Given this backdrop, I doubt the aforementioned November 1970 record is going to last much longer, for the metaphorical OPEC ‘put option’ is unquestionably helping U.S. producers as much as it is firming up the finances of the cartel’s members. By its very definition, in the wider commodities and securities world, a put option is an option contract giving the owner the right, but not the obligation, to sell a specified amount of an underlying asset class at a specified price within a specified time. While OPEC and its partners do not openly comment on what price level they are comfortable with, over 2018 – their specified time – they would ideally want their specified selling price, using Brent as a benchmark, to be at least $50 per barrel, and ideally $60. Under normal circumstances, it would be easy to adopt a bullish stance after an OPEC cut or a cut extension as we saw on 30 November. You can always count on money managers, especially hedge funds, to pile in to extend the rally; as the recent Brent front-month futures price jump to $71 per barrel aptly demonstrates. Wall Street will always do its bit. Goldman Sachs (who else), is now putting forward an outlandish 6-month price target of $82.50 per barrel, and even JPMorgan’s price target is now $70 per barrel, nearly 50% more than what it forecast as recently as October 2017. However, the oil market is undergoing a once-in-a-generation change in terms of supply fundamentals. The presence of U.S. producers – who lead the pack of non-OPEC producers with capacity – means OPEC’s bid to put a price floor higher than $60 remains under medium term, if not short term, threat. Each time the price strengthens, there is a near immediate uptick in U.S. rig counts as recent data proves. The past few weeks aptly illustrate this. Both in the run up to the OPEC meeting on 30 November, as well as in the weeks after, U.S. rig counts have continued to rise over most weeks with the odd weekly decline. By that token it is astonishing for Saudi Oil Minister Khalid Al-Falih to claim, as he recently did, that the impact of U.S. shale has been exaggerated. The changing tune of Wall Street forecasts is equally surprising. In fact, OPEC and the wider oil market should expect more U.S. oil over the medium term, given the country’s reserves position. Research and analysis outfit GlobalData has observed that the U.S. holds the top spot among the 10 countries with largest remaining crude and condensate reserves, with 91.1 billion barrels expected to be economically recovered in the country. Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Russia follow with 77.4 billion barrels, 71.8 billion barrels and 70.6 billion barrels, respectively. Admittedly, there’s a vast differential between breakeven prices stateside, thought to be between $30-35 per barrel, and the Arabian peninsula, where they are often as low as $3-5 per barrel. But as long as the oil price does not fall below $40, the Americans are fine. From a demand perspective, conservative to optimistic demand growth forecasts range from 1.2 to 1.5 million bpd. That’s decent and would prevent a drop to $40. Meanwhile, global inventories have indeed fallen from their 2017 peak and the 5-year moving average is also converging with the actual level of inventories; a major aim of OPEC cuts. But the falls do not equate to the physical market becoming balanced in the longer-term, or OPEC would not have pushed to extend the cuts at its last meeting. Big question is how long does the so-called ‘OPEC put’ stay in place? The OPEC and non-OPEC cuts plan doesn’t seem to have an exit strategy. At some point the cuts have to end, and that would inevitably drag the oil price lower. So I remain skeptical of a $70 oil price target, let alone a $82.50 one – whether we talking about Brent futures maintaining the said level, or WTI futures touching it and staying there. In fact, the way I see it, there’s little to suggest oil would substantially overshoot $60 or by the same token slump too far below it in 2018. The above commentary is meant to stimulate discussion based on the author’s opinion and analysis. It is not solicitation, recommendation or investment advice to trade oil and gas futures, options or products. Oil and gas markets can be highly volatile and opinions in the sector may change instantaneously and without notice. 