Energy major BP has raised the possibility of a major uptick in its North Sea oil and gas production after it revealed two new hydrocarbon source discoveries in the region. The new finds were made in the North Sea’s Capercaillie and Achmelvich fields, situated in the central zone of the offshore prospect, west of the Shetland Islands. BP began preliminary prospection last year and recent tests have been encouraging. Data analysis and further tests are currently underway. A spokesperson said the company would "assess future options," when field analysis of the new discoveries is complete. Mark Thomas, regional president of BP’s North Sea operations, added: "These are exciting times for BP in the North Sea as we lay the foundations of a refreshed and revitalized business that we expect to double production to 200,000 barrels a day by 2020 and keep producing beyond 2050.    "We are hopeful that Capercaillie and Achmelvich may lead to further additions to our North Sea business." If the discoveries lead to an expansion of North Sea operations, then it would reverse the recent trend of BP’s retreat from the region. In November 2017, the oil giant sold its interest in the Bruce, Keith and Rhum fields to Serica Energy for $425 million. Prior to that, in April 2017, the company sold its Forties Pipeline System (FPS), opened in 1975 to transport crude oil from the Forties field in the North Sea, to petrochemical tycoon Jim Ratcliffe’s Ineos for $250 million. The oil giant was among the North Sea pioneers when the Forties pipeline first came onstream from what was then the U.K.’s first major offshore oilfield. In the case of the latest discoveries, any oil and gas that’s extracted could use existing infrastructure to move the products using a "tie back" mechanism whereby a pipe is laid to existing platforms. Industry body Oil and Gas U.K. said BP's exciting discovery marks a more positive start to 2018 for British exploration. "Our competitive fiscal terms, and the strides we have made to bring our finding costs in line with our peers, make the U.K. continental shelf a very attractive basin for doing business," Chief Executive Deirdre Michie noted. 