For the most part, at least two think tanks, including the Atlantic Council, got their main men on the new Russian blacklist released to Monday. But the news completely failed to hurt the Russian market, with most articles blaming Trump's administration for going weak on Vladimir Putin's inner circle. Russian securities outperformed everything today. The bulk of the names on the list, including Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller, VTB Bank president Andrey Kostin, and metals tycoon Oleg Deripaska, were all names on "black" and "gray" lists circulating between the State Department and Washington think tanks for months. Treasury said that the appearance on the list does not mean they are banned from traveling to or doing business with the U.S. The list itself was actually put together from a list of who's who on the Kremlin's website and from a Forbes billionaire list of men often with little or no ties to Putin at all, as Bloomberg's Russia specialist Leonid Bershidsky noted this morning. It shouldn't make anyone in the market nervous. BuzzFeed even forgot that the sanctions were based on the Ukraine crisis, and slammed Trump for not punishing Russians for "election meddling." BuzzFeed's article might set the table for further Trump-Russia collusion talking points on the cable news shows later this evening. But it is unlikely to sour investors any more than they already are with regards to America's favorite enemy. The latest sanctions law, passed begrudgingly by Trump in the summer, cites election meddling as a trigger for increased sanctions against Russian energy and banking giants. The law required the State Department, Treasury, and Director of National Intelligence to provide Congress with a list of new individuals and further guidance on sanctioning Russian sovereign bonds as well as the securities of sanctioned companies, like Gazprom. The unclassified portion of that report, released today, included the list of Russian names to be considered for sanctioning. Nearly ever major chief executive of a state-controlled enterprise is on the list, even Sberbank's top chief Herman Gref, a man many foreigners view as a solid bank CEO. Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts led by Boris Reyzelman in Moscow wrote in a trading note today that "the main risk event is behind us." Investors were worried that Treasury would announce sanctions on Russian sovereign debt and on the securities of companies already sanctioned, like Gazprom and Sberbank. VanEck Global fund manager David Semple is not convinced Russian securities are free of sanctions drama. Some of the worse news could be buried in the classified portion of the report. "Russia has always been a challenging place to find good investments. Add on another layer of 'opaque' corporate governance, and the investment attraction lessens further," he says. "Essentially this list doesn’t change our approach, but may give portfolio managers with larger weightings, pause for thought." The VanEck Russia exchange-traded fund is heavily weighted towards sanctioned Russian entities. If sanctioned, VanEck would no longer be able to buy those stocks. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the men on the list face the real threat of sanctions, The Hill reported. "There will be sanctions that come out of this report," Mnuchin reportedly said, saying they could be issued within two or three months. Senator John Kennedy (R-La.) told Mnuchin he feared the consequences of not cracking down harder on Putin, insisting the U.S. should "hit him (with sanctions) until he's coughing up bones," The Hill reported him saying. The next positive trigger for Russia outside of $80 oil is still a long way off. It is dependent on Congress removing sanctions, a next-to-impossible long shot. But if oil remains strong and the Russian economy can grow over 2% like its recession-wrecked BRIC counterpart — Brazil — it might get a credit upgrade. Last week, Moody's raised the outlook on Russia's rating to "positive," while S&P has had it on a positive outlook since last year. Both rating agencies said that an uncertain sanctions outlook is the main constraint to positive rating action. This latest sanctions maintenance report might have moved the needle a little bit in Russia's favor. An auction of 30 billion rubles ($534 million) of bonds on Wednesday should see strong demand, according to Javier Sanchez, a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA. “The market has received the sanctions report well,” he was quoted as saying in a Bloomberg article today. When asked, the State Department did not hint whether sanctioning Russian sovereign bonds were still a possibility. The State Department only mentioned sanctions on Russian defense contractors. "We are using this legislation as Congress intended to press Russia to address our concerns related to its aggression in Ukraine, interference in other nations' domestic affairs and abuses of human rights," a State Department spokesperson said. "Foreign governments and private sector entities have been put on notice, both publicly and privately, including by the highest-level State Department and other U.S. government officials where appropriate, that significant transactions with listed Russian entities will result in sanctions." Some Ukrainian activists were hoping Washington would add the names of Russians living in the Donbass of east Ukraine to the list. They say that some have been profiting from the war, the original source of the sectoral sanctions, and that if those men were punished further it might lessen their appetite for the separatist movement now it its fourth year. Think tanks in Washington are unlikely to be entirely satisfied. They wanted to see the names of men like Putin's friend Sergei Roldugin, listed in the Panama Papers, on the new blacklist. Daniel Fried, a former State Department official who crafted the Russian sanctions in 2014 and now a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council, said in the think tank's blog post this afternoon that he was surprised by the “clumsy” rollout of the Treasury’s "Kremlin Report". He said the Trump administration has acted “responsibly and credibly” over the past year to implement existing Russia sanctions, but fell short this time. His colleague, Anders Aslund, went so far as to say that the Trump administration was taking yet another cue from Putin. While Treasury said the names on its list “were selected based on objective criteria drawn from publically available sources,” Fried reiterated what has been said in Bloomberg and BuzzFeed reports this morning, that it appeared to be a “cut-and-paste job” of the Forbes Russia billionaire list. “I find that puzzling because I have reason to believe that the administration was in fact taking this report seriously and had proceeded with diligence to compile a serious list of the Putin power structure,” he said. “For reasons that I cannot understand, the administration chose another course,” he said. See: Who Profits From The Broken Russia-Ukraine Peace Deal -- Forbes 