I spent the last week in London and I couldn't help but reminisce about the chaotic days in the markets following Brexit. In the wee hours after the referendum results were announced, I wrote this Forbes article, and the bullish tone of my piece contrasted sharply with the dire predictions of some market pundits. Some diehards were convinced that the prelude to Brexit would be an economic downturn in the U.K. with a corresponding collapse in the value of the British pound. Well, those naysayers could not have been more wrong on both counts, and, while my bullish call has worked well over the past 18 months, I am staying “long Britain.”  In that article, I mentioned five stocks as “Best of British” plays. All five have performed extremely well since June 2016 but face different outlooks as Brexit approaches in March 2019. The first two stocks I mentioned, Royal Dutch Shell and British Petroleum, were intended as long-term buy-and-holds to lock in the greater-than-7% yields both stocks sported on Brexit Friday. Adding in the post-Brexit capital gains of 38.6% for RDS.A and 32.4% for BP and those were two terrific trades, but my investment strategy is more focused on income generation than capital gains.     With crude prices having jumped in the past month--international benchmark Brent crude prices are a few pennies below $70 as I write this — BP’s and RDS.A’s yields are safer than ever. So you would have to be, as the Brits would say, batty to sell integrated oil stocks now. Shell and BP did just fine with oil at $50/barrel, and the 40% increase since then represents a huge margin tailwind for those companies. Those margins should result in higher dividends from RDS.A and BP going forward, making the yields you receive all the more attractive.  The situation facing my second two picks, Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton is more nuanced than the purely bullish conditions facing the oil majors. Both stocks have rocketed since my Brexit Friday buy call — BHP has risen 87.7% while RIO has risen 104.8% — and the question now is: when to sell? The key commodity for both BHP and Rio Tinto is iron ore. Prices for iron ore have risen about 20% over the past few months, in line with the jump in oil prices. Iron ore prices are notoriously volatile, especially since the commodity is mainly traded on second-tier Chinese exchanges. I’m predicting flat iron ore prices for the balance of 2018, and that takes some of the appeal away from BHP and RIO shares. If you bought them on Brexit, I would hold them and avoid the tax liability caused by the massive gains since then, but I am not allocating new capital to either name today.  Finally, there is Diageo, whose shares have risen 36.1% since Brexit Friday. DEO shares have fallen 2.7% in the past month, and I believe it is time to take profits on the drinks giant. Diageo has faced more difficult market conditions in recent quarters than the aforementioned commodity producers. The pound has recovered to a level of near $1.40 to the dollar--further shaming those pundits that predicted the pound would fall to parity with the dollar in the prelude to Brexit. That said, the pound is weaker versus the euro and other key currencies than it was in mid-2016, and that pressures Diageo’s margins. I still love the company's products, but I no longer own DEO stock.  