The European Investment Bank, the European Union’s main financing arm, yesterday approved a €1.5 billion loan for construction of the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline (TAP) – the last leg of a planned Southern Gas Corridor from Azerbaijan to Italy. Announcing the decision, EIB Vice President Andrew McDowell told the Reuters news agency that TAP will reduce the EU’s dependence on Russian gas and displace coal-fired power generation in central and south eastern Europe. The pipeline would be the first non-Russian gas pipeline to Europe built since the Medgaz link from Algeria to Spain was finished in 2008. Russia’s Gazprom currently supplies one-third of Europe’s gas market, and has a near-lock on markets in the East. The EU is concerned that Gazprom is overcharging central and eastern European countries, abusing its dominant position.    The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is expected to approve a similar loan for TAP in the coming months. Environmental doubt But assertions both about TAP’s energy security and environmental benefits have been greeted with scepticism – particularly the latter claim. Last week the environmental group CEE Bankwatch published a study disputing the EU’s claims that the project will lower the continent’s emissions. It concludes that the Southern Gas Corridor’s overall environmental impact would actually be as damaging as coal, largely because of fugitive emissions of uncombusted methane and other leaks. Such high-pressure pipelines are susceptible to leaks, the study says, and the methane that is released is a particularly potent greenhouse gas that is more damaging than CO2. The study looked at nine different scenarios for the pipeline, and in five of them, the share of unintended methane emissions in extraction and transmissions would be between 2.44 percent and 5.95 percent. The International Energy Agency has said that any gas project with more than three percent fugitive emissions can be doing climate damage than coal. The study was conducted by researchers from the Observatori del Deute en la Globalització and the Polytechnic University of Catalonia. TAP has said it was not consulted for the study and that the data used for it does not appear to be aligned by the data they are using. The company stands by its assertion that the pipeline will provide benefit by displacing coal power. Neither the EIB nor the European Commission has published any climate impact assessment for the project. The project has faced delays in Italy over its non-climate environmental impacts, over fears of its impact on the surrounding ecosystem. Russian gas sneaking in Claims about the project’s potential to increase energy security have also been challenged. The corridor is meant to bring 16 billion cubic meters of gas to Europe per year from the Shah Deniz 2 field in Azerbaijan, which is being developed by a BP-led consortium. Ten billion of that would arrive in Italy via Greece and Albania through the TAP, which would join the Trans Anatolian Pipeline (TANAP) at the Turkish border. But Gazprom indicated last year that it is considering selling its gas through the TAP, which critics say would be contradictory to the main point of the project. Such transit could be possible because of an auction system which gives equal access to all potential suppliers. This could be of particular interest to Gazprom after its attempt at a rival pipeline project, South Stream, has faced setbacks. South Stream would have brought Russian gas to Europe via the Black Sea, bypassing Ukraine. Another such project, Nord Stream 2 via the Baltic Sea, is facing political and regulatory objections from the EU. Yesterday’s loan announcement by the EIB is likely to spur further private sector investment in the $40 billion TAP project, which now looks in good position to move full steam ahead. Environmental campaigners however say they will keep fighting the pipeline’s construction. 