Russian bonds are safe from sanctions. Based on the opinion of the Treasury Department, sanctioning the purchase of Russian sovereign debt would lead to economic upheaval, and trigger a sell-off of Russian bonds in the U.S. and probably Europe. "If you had sanctions on Russian sovereigns, and they were retroactive, we would have to sell," says Gorky Urquieta, a bond fund manager at Neuberger Berman. "It would hurt U.S. investors." The Treasury Department warned in its report to Congress that Russia’s sovereign debt market is too important to sanction without risking global financial turmoil, Bloomberg reported on Friday. That note can be seen as a sign of relief for Russian debt. In early August, Congress gave Treasury 180 days to report back to them on the impact of sanctioning Russian government bonds as well as the stocks of companies sanctioned under the existing regime. Today's news means Treasury is wary of targeting the Russian bond market, which would threaten penalties on numerous U.S. emerging market bond funds like those at Neuberger Berman. Any threat of penalties could trigger a sell-off, even if the sanctions were not retroactive, meaning they did not punish investors who bought Russian bonds prior to the sanctions rule. On Monday, the State Department sent Congress a list of individuals working in the Kremlin, along with a list of Forbes-listed Russian billionaires, for possible inclusion on the Specially Designated Nationals List (SDN). Nobody wants to be on that list. The Treasury press office said Monday the names revealed in the unclassified portion of the report were not necessarily going on the SDN list. Some major Russian billionaires like Arkady Rotenburg and executives like Igor Sechin of Rosneft are on SDN lists. They are banned from traveling to the U.S. and from selling any U.S. based financial assets. Exxon was fined $2 million last year just for signing a legal document with Sechin, Rosneft's CEO. Exxon is disputing the charge. Sanctions were placed on individual Russians in March 2014 following the annexation of Crimea, a peninsula in southeast Ukraine that juts into the Black Sea. Sectoral sanctions on oil and gas and Russian banks were imposed that summer following Russian support for a separatist movement in the Donbass, an industrial region of eastern Ukraine with a large ethnic Russian population. President Trump signed an extraterritorial sanctions bill in August. The law put major energy projects on notice — namely the Nord Stream II pipeline connecting Russia to Germany. See: Washington Think Tanks Fail To Deliver Russian Sanctions Smackdown -- Forbes Who Profits From The Broken Russia-Ukraine Peace Deal? -- Forbes To Some In Russia, Oil Chief More Feared Than Putin -- Forbes The new sanctions law also threatened sanctions on owning shares of companies like Gazprom, Rosneft, Lukoil, Sberbank and VTB Bank — all Russian blue chips that constitute the biggest weighting in the VanEck Russia (RSX) exchange-traded fund. That fund has outperformed the benchmark MSCI Emerging Markets Index year-to-date, as investors bet Team Trump refrain from sanctioning Russian stocks. Bonds are more than likely out of the woods, but stocks are not. The State Department did not hint as to whether the classified portion of its sanctions memo to Congress called for fines against those holding or trading in Russian securities. Monday's so-called Kremlin list, coupled with today's Bloomberg headline, has the usual anti-Trump, anti-Russia chorus heading for the liquor cabinet. In Washington, rumor has it that the Kremlin list and today's Treasury news is a gift to Vladimir Putin. Also on Monday, Russian business daily Vedomosti reported that Viktor Zubkov, Chairman of the Board of Directors at Gazprom, withdrew his shares in the state-controlled gas giant. The paper reported that he sold around 26 million rubles ($461,240) on Jan. 25. A Russian hedge fund manager in Moscow, speaking off-the-record, said he was aware of Zubkov's unloading of his Gazprom shares, but wasn't sure why. "Maybe he finally realized Gazprom is a machine for destroying shareholder value," he says. "Or maybe he is losing his job. Or probably both." Gazprom was recently ranked the No. 1 integrated oil and gas company in the world by S&P Platts. 