President Trump didn't give much of a shout-out to American Energy in his first State of the Union address Tuesday night. Two sentences was all we got: "We have ended the war on American Energy -- and we have ended the war on beautiful clean coal. We are now very proudly, an exporter of energy to the world." He didn't need to say much. The first year of Trump’s quest for American energy “dominance” proved to be a humdinger and will be hard to top. Trump started by ordering expedited final approvals for the Keystone XL and Dakota Access Pipelines. He withdrew the U.S. from the Paris Climate Accord. And rescinded the Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan. He scrapped the Waters of America rule, which would have put onerous regulations over the energy and ag industries. He supported opening a sliver of the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge to drilling and directed the Dept. of Interior to end the moratorium on coal leases in Federal lands. Just last week the administration moved to protect the handful of remaining U.S. solar cell manufacturers (most notably Tesla’s SolarCity division) but hurt installers by enacting tariffs on imports of Chinese PV panels. What’s he got to show for it? A lot. American oil production is surging, with drillers set to hit a record 10 million barrels per day, surpassing a 1970 record and on par with Russia and Saudi Arabia. Exports of crude oil and petroleum products has exploded 20% in a year to more than 7 million barrels per day. Natural gas production has also hit a record of more than 93 billion cubic feet per day. While wind power has risen to surpass hydropower as America’s biggest renewable power source. It was even a good year for coal miners, who had their best up-year amid a decade of steep market share losses, with no end in sight. "President Trump's first year in office has been revelatory," said billionaire Harold Hamm, in a statement earlier this month. His Continental Resources (NYSE:CLR) has been avidly exporting its shale oil abroad, "allowing oil buyers to avoid patronizing hostile regimes." And despite this bonanza, a funny thing happened with America’s carbon emissions. They kept dropping, to a 25-year low. According to the EIA, “energy related carbon emissions” peaked around 6 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2007. Since then they have fallen 15% to about 5 billion tons per year — back to levels of the early 1990s. To be sure, the president can’t take credit for our embarrassment of energy riches or our carbon reductions. "Let's see, he rolled back regs that were not yet effective," says Ed Hirs, a lecturer in energy economics at the University of Houston. "He opened lands for drilling that won't see a drill bit for years. He cheered on coal even as more mines and power plants closed." The oil and gas fracking boom caught fire during the Obama years. And the reduction in emissions is broadly due to power generators switching over from coal to cleaner-burning natural gas, plus the benefits of LED lightbulb technology. What’s more, many power plant owners had already been moving — pre-Trump — to mothball coal-burning power plants in favor of cleaner technology. So, uh, thanks President Obama for helping make American Energy Great Again? Nope, says Bud Brigham, CEO of oil explorer Brigham Resources, who says you can’t compare Trump and Obama. “It’s the difference between night and day," he told me today. "We’ve gone from an administration that was openly hostile to oil and gas, particularly on the regulatory front, to one that embraces our resources and our energy entrepreneurs. It’s unleashed the best that’s in us, and we are now exporting freedom around the world.” As long as West Texas Intermediate sells for over $50, Brigham and his cadre intend to keep right on drilling. At last, billionaire capitalists are emboldened to stick up for themselves -- like Kelcy Warren, CEO of Energy Transfer, which has filed suit against Greenpeace, accusing the environmental activists of conspiring to foment violence and sabotage last year at this company’s Dakota Access Pipeline construction site, in violation of anti-racketeering statutes. "We were greatly harmed, lost millions of dollars," says Warren. Big Oil is emboldened too. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson's old haunt, ExxonMobil, announced plans this week for $50 billion in U.S. capital spending in over the next five years. A big chunk of that will be in the Permian Basin of southeastern New Mexico where a year ago the company acquired 250,000 acres from the billionaire Bass Brothers of Fort Worth. Exxon figures that at $60 oil they have sufficient inventory to drill 7,000 wells in the Permian and treble its output there to 600,000 barrels per day. At about $3 million per well to drill and frack, Exxon intends to spend more than $20 billion in the Permian. What can Trump do to make American energy even greater? He could push for pipeline extensions to take cheap gas from the Marcellus shale into the Northeast. He could waive the Jones Act to allow non-U.S.-flagged LNG tankers to deliver domestic gas into Boston harbor. He could push for tort reform to protect energy companies from hungry attorneys. And he can push for an infrastructure bill with lots of support for federal clean up of “Superfund” toxic waste sites — which should serve as an object lesson to us all about the risks that we run when we threaten to abandon decades of environmental regulatory progress. But perhaps most importantly, the president should really try to just keep his hands off the industry, not try to pick any winners, and allow the animal spirits to unleash themselves. And for those of us concerned about carbon-induced climate change, there’s still hope. America’s carbon emissions are likely to continue to decrease in the years ahead, not because of Trump, but due to efforts by nine northeastern states (Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusettes, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island and Vermont) to work together on a carbon cap-and-trade plan. California has its own carbon regime, while Virginia, Oregon and Washington may be next. Come to think of it, we can even credit Trump for the wave of blue state moves to regulate carbon — they’re acting not because the United Nations thinks it’s a good idea or because the central planning committee orders it so, but because their people are clamoring for a carbon solution. This is the way the problem ought to be solved. Chalk up wins for states rights and the preservation of America’s sovereign right to put as much carbon dioxide into the air as we please. Tired of winning yet? Only three years to go. 