Despite the rise in oil prices that have retracked a bit, surging U.S. crude oil production continues to amaze. We are at levels not seen in nearly 50 years, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) reports that U.S. crude oil production averaged 10.2 million b/d up 100,000 b/d from the December level. EIA says that average annual U.S. crude production will increase from 9.33 million b/d in 2017 to 10.6 million b/d in 2018 to 11.2 million b/d in 2019. So, this year and next we will surpass the the previous record of 9.6 million b/d set in 197o, perhaps surpassing Russia and Saudi Arabia (i.e., in terms of crude oil. We already produce more overall oil liquids than both). In fact, the rise of U.S. crude oil has been so quickly huge that EIA's National Energy Modeling System has had chance to keep up, thanks to the amazing achievements in efficiency and technology that our oil industry continues to deploy. For example, EIA’s latest monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook released on February 6 predicted that U.S. crude production would top 11 million b/d in the fourth quarter of this year. January's prediction was that we wouldn't reach that level until November 2019. The U.S. has now become the world's swing oil producer and is the main factor that will limit how high prices can go - a great ability to respond rapidly to price signals. Even the "best experts" have been proven to be quite misinformed: "U.S. production growth won't come until $80 a barrel," Morgan Stanley, 2016. WTI hasn't settled above $67 since December 3, 2014 - yet U.S. crude production has increased 13% since then. Looking forward, the boom in U.S. crude production shows how we must never rest on our energy laurels, and we need to continually enact pro-energy development policies. Policy matters. We all know how the U.S. shale oil (and gas) has had great economic and job benefits, but the security benefits often go less noticed. Since the shale revolution took flight 2008, U.S. oil imports from OPEC have been sliced in half to 3 million b/d, their lowest levels since the mid-1980s. And since U.S. crude oil exports were opened in 2015, our exports to all-important China have surged: "How soaring U.S. oil exports to China are transforming the global oil game," buffering the influence of the Middle East and Russia, who combined account for 50% of all global oil exports. U.S. crude oil exports have reached above 2 million b/d at times in recent months, or 30 times higher than they were in 2012. Total oil exports have passed 7.2 million b/d, versus 2.3 million b/d in 2010. Yet, even more pro-oil policies are needed. Because as we have reduced our reliance on others to meet our energy needs, in many cases our allies are growing more dependent. Many of our best friends have very low energy security rankings because they over-rely on more politically risky suppliers: "Europe Increasingly Dependent on Oil Imports, Above All from Russia." We got them covered: “Today, having cut costs dramatically, U.S. producers are enjoying a second wave of growth so extraordinary that in 2018 their increase in liquids production could equal global demand growth,” reports the International Energy Agency. EIA's Annual Energy Outlook 2018 projects that U.S. oil production will continue to increase by 0.6% per year for as far out as it models...2050. And as I have documented, offshore might be the future. Some 94% of our nation's outer continental shelf is currently off limits to oil and gas leasing and exploration, but the Trump administration's new leasing plan would change that. Today, offshore accounts for 15% of total U.S. crude production, but the future is huge because offshore deposits are typically much larger than onshore finds, and higher prices will help. Local development bans are unfair, illogical, and hypocritical: those states themselves use loads of oil. For example, the anti-oil development push in California is obviously absurd: California has 33 million oil-based cars, and "California motorists drive almost 1 billion miles every day, and in doing so consume around 40 million gallons of gasoline and 8 million gallons of diesel." Worse, I have already documented how misguided oil policies in California have hurt Canadian oil chances while making the state overly dependent on OPEC, an oil cartel controlled by rogue and/or anti-democratic regimes. This hypocrisy of "I want to use oil but stand opposed to producing oil" must continually be called out. As New England has disastrously found out, anti-pipeline policies only serve to help Russia. Regulatory certainty for U.S. oil development is essential to the industry's continued success. We need to provide a clear path forward for the industry to project developers and show that the U.S. is the best place to make multi-billion dollar investments to help deliver oil, still the world's most important energy source that has no significant substitute. Policies to support the U.S. oil industry are mandatory: "Plans in the works for super group of oil producing countries." Let's make a rhyme of it: "fracking bans play into Putin's hands"......."fracking bans play into Putin's hands."