Given the political theater these days and the rise of hyperbole in public discourse, I should probably be crowing like Peter Pan. Less than three weeks ago, in a FORBES column, I said, “More probably, there will be a sharp correction in the stock market, higher interest rates, rising (but maybe not high) unemployment and something between slower growth and a recession, hopefully nowhere near as severe as 2008.” Not to forget my late May 2008 columns “Investing for Low Oil Prices” arguing that $130 oil prices were too high and would come down (at some point), contradicting those who said the price rise had just begun. The Telegraph, a British paper, listed all the typical arguments in an article titled “Cheap oil is history: But why?”: “The days of easy oil are over. ... Analysts predict it could reach $200 by next year.” T. Boone Pickens, a hedge fund trader specializing in oil and a fellow FORBES contributor, was quoted as saying: “Eighty-five million barrels of oil a day is all the world can produce, and the demand is 87 million. It’s just that simple.” Nailed it, right? Well, it's complicated. Many market analysts would end this piece right there, highlighting their success and basking in whatever glory could come from picking two market peaks, but I have to admit that I’ve had plenty of bad forecasts, (as in the 2006 FORBES article “Really, Really Cheap Oil.”) And plenty of my critics (mostly peak-oil advocates) have pointed to other bad forecasts, mostly of short-term oil prices.    There are serious lessons to be learned from market forecasts, good and bad, that go far beyond success or failure of any given prediction. Far too many observers note nothing more than the track record of an analyst, as if oil prices or the stock market were physical entities that could be predicted scientifically so that a bad forecast must be due to relying on bad theory. (Peak-oil advocates often claim their forecasts are scientific, but they are really curve-fitting.) A more nuanced view can be informative. First, bad short-term forecasts are not the result of stupidity or due to the random nature of market movements. (Economists call that “Brownian motion,” but people like me know it as “drunkard’s walk.”) And the best cop-out remains J.P. Morgan’s prediction of the stock market: “It will fluctuate.” That usually gets a laugh, but not many realize that it explains how some financiers make their money: by recognizing that market moves include fluctuations and not just trends. A trading strategy based on that attitude is the polar opposite of the “buy and hold” approach that some take, like Warren Buffett, but can be successful if the trader recognizes that they are following such a strategy. The next step is to avoid getting caught up in market mania, of fashionable marko-babble (traders’ version of psycho-babble). Every bubble has seen pundits rush to argue that the spike is not a bubble, with any number of rationalizations for why they are elevated. In the Japanese bubble in the 1980s, we were assured that Japan’s land area was fixed, so naturally real estate prices were high. In the 19th century, railroad stocks were touted as representing a business revolution. The dot-com bubble in the 1990s was part of the "new economy," and those stocks shouldn’t be priced the same as for traditional bricks-and-mortar firms. The 2008 oil price bubble was claimed by some as due to peak oil. Nearly every period of elevated assets brought forth the mantra “This time is different.” So far, no time has been different. Perhaps the most important moral is to rely on first principles. The P/E ratio (price/earnings) for the stock market is the best indicator of whether equity values are getting ahead of themselves, or conversely are depressed. The current market correction reflects this, although it would be just as foolish to think that P/E is an iron law. The historical level of 15-to-1 acts as a form of gravitational pull, and divergence from it usually leads to a correction, but fortunes can be made and lost in the interim. Similarly, with oil prices, there are numerous factors that can send it well above the long-term trend, including events like the Arab Spring in the short term and resource nationalism over lengthier periods. But commodity prices have never shown a rising long-term trend, and there is always a high probability of mean reversion. The oil price was clearly in a bubble in 2008, while today’s slightly elevated prices simply reflect tighter markets. Ultimately, the most crucial lesson is to realize that there is uncertainty in markets, especially in the short term. Analysts who make concrete predictions tend to be popular, especially when their predictions are optimistic (the "buy-side bias") while those who talk about different outcomes are dismissed as "two-handed economists" (“on the one hand, on the other hand”) even though they are usually more insightful. Many observers gleefully trash analysts or even organizations like the Energy Information Administration for erroneous forecasts without any sense of why they were wrong, usually without any context. Because honestly, oil price forecasts typically have batting averages that wouldn’t let them make my hometown baseball team, the Richmond Flying Squirrels. 