By Rachel Butt Though oil prices have recovered from their most depressed levels reached in 2016, the continued low-price environment has changed the formula – literally – for investing in stateside oil production. Current prices hover around the $60 per barrel area, up substantially from trough levels below $30 per barrel back in 2016, but well below the $100 level that inspired many highly-levered operators to take out even more debt to fund production. Amid the carnage that resulted, at least 117 oil & gas and related services companies filed for bankruptcy within the last two years, for untold losses of investor capital, according to Debtwire data. Now, amid the stalled recovery, growth capital piling into the nascent energy sector recovery has been largely cut off from the public equity markets, where hype last year surrounding an IPO window was short-lived. The bond and loan markets remain open, but are mainly utilized by borrowers in need of large-scale liability management, the sources continued. Enter DrillCo financing. Filling the void, these deals have become a popular mechanism that allow companies to raise development capital for hot shale plays while still safeguarding cash flow. Unlike a standard joint venture deal that comprises two operators, DrillCo funding arrangements entail a financial backer committing successive cash tranches to cover development of an operator’s assets in a specific area. In exchange, the investor gets a share of the wellbore interests. Deal structures also come with protections against conditions turning unfavorable, as performance-based terms typically allow for capital providers to pull commitments before next in line tranches are accessed. That is appealing to public massive dilution tied to raising equity at depressed prices. “Companies take a dilution on asset value [up front] but arguably end up creating more value on those assets,” Alex Montano, a managing director at ROTH Capital Partners, told Debtwire. As such, the long-term strategy can be useful for overlevered, public E&P companies that are focused on managing cash flow and credit metrics, the sources noted. Likewise, value investors have an opportunity to bet on the sector’s comeback potential. “DrillCo is probably the most innocuous way to solve their problems or achieve growth – not adding debt nor bringing in an industry partner to have a chunk of the acreage,” said Lynn Bass, a managing director of Silverstone Energy Partners. DrillCo deals for public E&P companies struck over the past year include Chaparral Energy with capital provider Bayou City Energy, California Resources Corp. with Benefit Street Partners, Earthstone Energy with IOG Capital, and SandRidge Energy with an undisclosed investor. Private equity-backed operators have also joined the fray. “Many PE sponsors are expecting to hold their [energy] portfolio companies for a longer period as the A&D market has gone quieter in the past few quarters,” said Charlie Shufeldt, managing director of IOG Capital. Debt funds already active in the energy space have begun to adapt strategies accordingly, with several new DrillCo compatible vehicles launching. For instance, Ares-backed Development Capital Resources was formed last year, as was Apollo-owned Wolfcamp Drillco Operating LP. To de-risk, DrillCo agreements generally allow parties to suspend drilling when oil prices slump to a certain level, or block the operator’s future access to funding for a project area if performance lags. Still scarred from the wreckage of the recent oil crisis, investors in talks over newer DrillCo agreements have been flirting with the prospect of increased protections in the way of liens and/or securitization of properties, the sources said. But while liens would benefit DrillCo investors, the co-opting of lending characteristics may risk setting off regulatory red flags while also complicating a borrower’s credit standing. To that point, modeling certain DrillCo deals to work more like debt instruments than JV structures could compel public operators to account the capital as debt, several buyside sources said. “What I see is accounting firms and the SEC are worried about some fancy off-balance sheet trick to the debt rules,” one of the buyside sources said. Rachel Butt is a reporter covering distressed middle market energy companies. She can be reached at Rachel.butt@debtwire.com.