European oil majors – including Shell, Total and BP – have “broadly adapted” to crude prices under $60 per barrel, according to a new industry report. In a recent note to its clients, Fitch Ratings said improved spending discipline, cost deflation and lower cash dividends had helped achieve a lower breakeven in 2017. “The companies all generated neutral-to-positive free cash flows in 2017 [after dividends, before mergers and acquisitions], according to their recently released annual results. Developments in their credit quality will largely depend on their ability to preserve financial flexibility, as oil prices are likely to remain volatile,” the agency noted. Despite Brent averaging just $55 per barrel in 2017, free cash flow before working capital changes ranged from -$0.5 per barrel for BP to $6.6 per barrel for Total; significantly better than in previous years. Oil majors used to burn cash even when oil prices exceeded $100 per barrel, as they were less operationally efficient and more capital-intensive. In 2013, when Brent averaged $109 per barrel, European majors' cash flows ranged from -$14 per barrel for Total to -$3 per barrel for BP. The improved cash flow is a result of multi-billion-dollar cost-cutting initiatives, higher focus on the downstream and petrochemicals segments, and the introduction of scrip dividends, which has helped to reduce cash payouts. Cash flows were also helped by external factors such as cost deflation, including rates charged by oilfield services firms, and depreciation of petrocurrencies, which reduced dollar-denominated costs. Oil majors expect this progress to continue; BP plans to reduce its organic break even price to $50 per barrel in 2018 and to $35-40 per barrel by 2021, and subsequently down to $30. However, Fitch noted that history shows the companies tend to give away their cost savings as oil prices rise, and it believes that oil majors' cash break even oil price is more likely to stabilize around $50-$60 per barrel in the medium term. “Nevertheless, this should allow integrated oil companies to generate neutral-to-positive free cash flows through the cycle under our price deck assumptions, which supports their current ratings,” it added. The main threat to the ratings of the oil majors would be a push from shareholders to re-prioritize dividends ahead of debt reduction, driven by the recent recovery in oil prices above $65 per barrel. “We doubt that current prices will be sustained. Our base case is that the Brent price will fall from current levels and stabilize in the $50-$60 per barrel range, as U.S. shale production is set to increase further,” Fitch said. Outlook for Shell (rated AA- by Fitch) is "Negative," largely due to relatively high debt, following its acquisition of BG, coupled with the cancellation of the scrip dividend at end-2017 and the announced share buy-back for at least $25 billion in 2017-20. “A mitigant is Shell's successful disposal programme, which brought in $22 billion in 2016-2017; however, this is coming to an end, with assets worth about $8 billion left to be sold. Other companies have remained more conservative, but higher payouts could put their ratings under pressure,” the agency concluded.