After a 7-month period of remarkably low volatility in the global crude oil markets, the last two weeks have seen a return of turbulence. The sudden correction that has hit stock markets around the world has in turn diminished stability where crude is concerned. A 10 percent drop in the Dow Jones Industrial average was met by a 10 percent drop in the price for WTI, as a strengthening dollar, a jump in the U.S. rig count and the preliminary announcement by the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) that domestic production set a new record of 10.25 million barrels of oil per day during the final week in January led to a predictable reaction in the trader and investor communities. Suddenly, those $55 hedge contracts some U.S. producers entered into during Q4 2017 aren't looking so conservative after all , as it appears that the WTI price could approach that level by the end of February. But the question that keeps nagging at my mind is, are we overreacting just a little bit here? True, we've had a confluence of seemingly bearish signals in the last two weeks, but it's hard to keep from wondering how much of it is actually more than offset by other, bullish signals, and how much of it might not even be real? Let's take the rig count as an example of a seemingly bearish signal that might not in fact even be real. Last Friday, within a couple of hours after Baker Hughes release its weekly rig count indicating a very large, 29-rig increase in a single week, the WTI price dropped by $2 per barrel, not a surprising reaction when the price had already been in a fall over the 10 previous trading days. But normal as the price move may have been, was it really justified? After all, that 29-rig jump, if it is indeed real, represents all but 17 of the total 46 rig increase in the Baker Hughes count for all of 2018 to this point. The current Baker Hughes count of 975 is also just 17 rigs higher than the count sat on July 28 of last year. By way of comparison, as of February 10, 2017, the Baker Hughes count had risen by 66 total rigs from the first of the year, and was 217 rigs higher than its level at the end of July 2016. So put in context, that 29 rig jump last week represents a barely increased level of active rigs in the U.S. over the preceding half year. At the same time, the DrillingInfo daily rig count, which uses a different methodology than the Baker Hughes count, showed no similar big jump in its tally over last week. In fact, as of February 12, the DrillingInfo count was just 11 rigs higher than where it sat on December 19, almost two months before. Any effort such as these two rig counts will always experience some 'noise in the system' from time to time, and you almost have to wonder if that isn't what took place with the Baker Hughes count last week. We'll find out soon enough. The same caution holds true where the EIA weekly production estimates are concerned. These estimates are based on preliminary data coming in from various sources, and are invariably revised up or down when the full actual data becomes available 60-90 days later. A great example of this revision process is found in the same February 7 Reuters story that first reported on the EIA's U.S. record announcement. First, Reuters very carefully qualifies that announcement's nature, correctly saying, " Oil production appeared to reach a new U.S. record, pending confirmation by monthly figures due in several weeks." In middle of that story, we also find the following sentence: "The EIA said November U.S. production rose to 10.038 million bpd, even though less-reliable weekly figures released at the time were far short of that number." So, there we see EIA revising its initial weekly November estimates upwards early in February, once some of the actual production numbers had come in from the various states. And the thing to understand about that EIA revised number is that it is likely to be revised again, since, when you check the production data at the Texas Railroad Commission (RRC) website, you see that the RRC doesn't even have its own final data in hand for that month as of the date this piece was published. Given that the EIA is partially reliant on data coming from the various state commissions in compiling its own data, you can see that more revisions are in store, especially when you consider that Texas produces about 35% of all U.S. crude. Which begs the question: Did the U.S. oil industry really set a new record production level during the last week in January? The answer is, we don't know for sure but will have a better idea around April or May, by which time it won't matter since the market already priced a record in during the first full week of February. But assuming that did happen, does it mean that U.S. producers are about to create another glut of supply on the global market? No, not really, because demand for crude remains strong, and is growing stronger as the global economy heats up. On February 12, OPEC announced it is again raising its 2018 estimate for global demand growth, this time by 60,000 barrels of oil per day to bring its current estimate to an increase of 1.59 million barrels per day. At the same time, OPEC raised its estimate of how much the U.S. and other non-OPEC nations would raise their production in 2018 to 1.4 million barrels per day. If OPEC and Russia continue their high compliance levels with their agreed-to quotas for the remainder of this year, OPEC estimates that would result in a global deficit of 560,000 barrels per day, all in all, a very healthy situation for crude prices. What it all means is that, while the turbulence has at least temporarily made a comeback in global crude markets, the overall situation remains healthy and there are good reasons to believe the price for oil at the end of 2018 will be higher than it was at the beginning.