On Friday, stocks bottomed into two big technical levels: 1) the two-year rising trendline that represented the recovery from the lows of 2016, which were induced by the oil price crash, and 2) the 200-day moving average. We've since seen a 5.5% bounce off of the bottom. Interestingly, the market that has had so many people concerned over the past two weeks--interest rates--were tame and lower on the day. But only after printing a new high (at 2.90%, which is the highest since January of 2014). That climb in rates, of course, has had everyone uptight about the inflation outlook. But the market you would expect to reflect inflation fears hasn't been telling the inflation story at all. I'm talking about the price of gold. And gold has been lower, not higher, since stocks have fallen. Here's a look at that chart ... With this in mind, the psychology always changes when stocks go down. People search for stories to fit the price--for trouble to fit the price. Even some of the more rational market practitioners were succumbing to this over the weekend, trying to conjure up a negative scenario unfolding for markets. Having been involved in markets for 20 years, I've seen, within both short- and long-term cycles, thousands of turning points, trend changes, phases of a cycles, trends and corrections of trends. Markets can and do have technical corrections. And they can and do correct for no reason, other than price. So, for perspective, things are good. We will have the hottest economy this year that we've seen in a decade. The benchmark 10-year yield, at 2.90%, remains very low relative to history. That means, although borrowing costs are ticking higher, money is still cheap. Gas is cheap. Consumer and corporate balance sheets are as good as they've been in a long time. And we've just gotten a blue light special on stocks--marking down prices from 18 times to something closer to 16 times earnings. And with the prospects for earnings to come in better than expected, given influence of tax cuts, we are probably looking at a P/E on the S&P 500 forward earnings closer to 15. If you are hunting for the right stocks to buy, join me in my Forbes Billionaire's Portfolio. We have a roster of 20 billionaire-owned stocks that are positioned to be among the biggest winners as the market recovers. You can add these stocks at a nice discount to where they were trading just a week ago.