Energy stocks fell sharply in the recent market correction and have lagged the general market’s rebound since. Despite a retreat in oil prices, many experts maintain a bullish longer-term view; here, six MoneyShow.com contributors highlight their top recommendations in the oil patch. Jason Williams, Energy and Capital When it comes to planning for retirement, the best strategy is to invest in companies that pay dividends. And energy stocks are some of the most reliable income-generating investments ever. Investments in energy companies are often the most profitable — in good times and bad. Let’s start with a solid (and high-yielding) master limited partnership. Williams Partners L.P. is an energy infrastructure company. It’s got a hand in pretty much every part of the oil and gas lifecycle. It helps producers gather, treat and compress newly recovered oil and gas. It provides for transportation and processing. It’s even involved in the marketing of final products. And it pays investors a very nice 6.09% quarterly payment. That’s $2.40 per unit per year. And it’s paid that dividend steadily since it was started in 2005. You’re not going to get blazing rallies in the stock, but you can depend on those payments hitting your bank account every three months, no matter what. Next up, let’s go with a dividend grower: ExxonMobil XOM +0% Exxon started paying a dividend back in 1911. And it’s managed to keep those payments going through multiple market collapses including the Great Depression. The company has also been raising that dividend payment every year for the past 35. Even during the Great Recession and the recent rout in oil prices, ExxonMobil kept giving investors raises. In fact, it’s averaged a 6.4% annual growth rate. That’s just what you want in your energy income portfolio. The stock currently has a 3.74% yield — that works out to $3.08 per share per year. Finally, the Energy Select SPDR Fund gives you investments in 33 different dividend-paying players in the energy market. You get exposure to exploration and production companies, midstream transport companies, refiners, and even companies that sell to the general public. And the best part is that you get to collect a dividend yield that’s a combination of all 33 of those payments. The fund pays investors a 5.06% yield that works out to about $3.46 per unit per year. And it’s been paying those quarterly distributions since the fund’s inception back in 1999. Peter Staas, Capitalist Times Higher average oil prices in 2018 and robust hedging by U.S. exploration and production companies should provide a supportive environment for pressure-pumping pricing next year. Conditions also look favorable on the supply and demand side. Expected proppant savings should also support pressure-pumping pricing as operators rely more heavily on local silica sand in the Permian Basin, Eagle Ford Shale and the Haynesville Shale. Despite the profusion of pure-play pressure pumpers, we prefer Halliburton HAL +0% In an environment where oil and gas producers remain focused on unlocking efficiencies and improving well productivity, Halliburton’s scale advantages and superior uptime make it a reliable partner. At the same time, oil-field service companies aim to attract the highest-quality operators to maximize the utilization rate of their pressure-pumping capacity. Halliburton’s scale should also enable the company to push the envelope on automation and machine learning — innovations that promise to unlock further productivity gains. Among the major U.S. oil-field service companies, Halliburton boasts the best leverage to accelerating activity and pricing gains in North America; in a momentum-driven market, Halliburton should benefit disproportionately from inflows to exchange-traded funds offering one-stop exposure to the industry. Although Schlumberger SLB +0% Halliburton has also taken market share internationally in recent quarters, while investors have questioned Schlumberger’s recent pursuit of production management deals that involve taking an equity interest in upstream projects. With market and business momentum on its side, Halliburton is auy up to $50. Although we see fewer near-term upside catalysts for Schlumberger, the company leads the industry in many product lines and has a solid track record of execution and innovation. Ongoing weakness in international markets will remain a challenge, but Schlumberger’s stock looks cheap for patient investors who have a longer time horizon. George Putnam, The Turnaround Letter Midstates Petroleum, based in Tulsa, Oklahoma, is a small-cap oil and gas exploration and production (E&P) company; crude oil generates about 52% of its revenues, with the balance from natural gas (27%) and natural gas liquids (21%). After its initial public offering in 2012, Midstates thrived when oil prices hovered over $100 a barrel, but succumbed to the industry’s subsequent deep recession and filed for Chapter 11 in May 2016. The company emerged from bankruptcy five months later, shedding about $2 billion of debt and replacing most of its board of directors. It currently produces just over 21,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day from three basins in Oklahoma. The shares, along with many other small-cap E&P stocks, are being neglected by the market. For example, while the price of oil rose by 12.5% over the course of 2017, Midstates stock dropped almost 19%. Not only do these companies get little coverage from Wall Street research, they also struggle for attention against rapidly rising and more fashionable technology and industrial stocks. Midstates checks many of our turnaround candidate boxes. First, it recently emerged from bankruptcy, which usually brings a discounted price but also a fresh start. In addition, the company is led by a new CEO, David Sambrooks, since November 2017. Sambrooks, an engineer by training, brings over 37 years of industry experience, including heading Sabine Oil and Gas along with many years at the much larger and highly regarded Devon Energy DVN +0% Importantly, Midstates has maintained its strong post-exit balance sheet with $76.5 million in cash and only $128 million in debt. Like all small-cap companies, Midstates shares carry significant risks, notably its link to commodity prices, the cost of drilling unproductive wells, its geographic concentration and the always-present chance of operational problems. Partly mitigating its oil price risk, Midstates has hedged about half of its oil production against price declines while preserving much of the upside should oil prices continue to rise. Midstates is trading at a low 3.6x EBITDA multiple, providing considerable discount for its risks. We expect mainstream investors to gradually come back to small-cap energy companies in general and post-reorganization energy stocks in particular. When that happens, it will significantly boost Midstates’ valuation metrics and stock price. Disclosure: Accounts managed by an affiliate of the publisher of The Turnaround Letter own Midstates Petroleum stock. Harry Domash, Dividend Detective We're adding two new stocks to our model portfolios: a natural gas pipeline operator and a master limited partnership involved in the oil fracking market. We’re adding ONEOK to the energy portfolio. Originally, a natural gas utility, ONEOK has morphed into a natural gas pipeline owner. Unlike the pipeline owners in our energy MLP portfolio, ONEOK is a regular corporation, making life easier at tax time. ONEOK expects that 85% to 95% of this year’s dividends will be classified as return of capital, meaning that you won’t pay taxes on them until you sell your shares. ONEOK pays 5.1% Meanwhile, we’re adding Hi-Crush Partners to the MLP portfolio. Hi-Crush is one of the largest producers of “frac sand,” which is a durable crush-resistant material used to extract crude oil from rocky formations (fracking). Business was good for Hi-Crush until crude oil prices plunged in 2015, cutting the need for drilling new wells. Revenues dropped precipitously and Hi-Crush suspended paying its distribution in 2015. Last year, however, drilling activity picked up and that growth trend accelerated as the year progressed. Now analysts expect Hi-Crush to report around $200 million in sales for its December 2017 quarter. Hi-Crush resumed its distributions in October 2017, starting at $0.15 per unit, then raising it to $0.20 in January. Current yield is 6.2%, but we see considerable distribution growth ahead. Bob Ciura, Wyatt Research’s Daily Profit Royal Dutch Shell is an integrated oil and gas giant, based in Europe. Shell is a prime example among international dividend stocks that could be more attractive than U.S.-based industry peers. It has maintained its hefty dividend, even amid the oil and gas industry downturn that took place from 2014-2016. In response to plunging commodity prices, Shell cut $20 billion from capital spending. Shell’s integrated structure also helped it survive the downturn. In addition to exploration and production businesses, which are highly reliant on the price of oil and gas, Shell has a large refining business. Refining activities are not highly exposed to the price of oil, which helped Shell remain profitable through the downturn. And, now that oil prices are rising once again, Shell is a major beneficiary. By the end of next year, the company expects $10 billion of new cash flow each year from its project lineup. Best of all, Shell has a 5.2% dividend yield, and the company generates more than enough cash flow to sustain the current payout. As Shell realizes growth from new projects, there could even be room to increase its dividend payout. Bill Selesky, Argus Research We are raising our rating on Kinder Morgan KMI +0% Kinder Morgan has an experienced management team, with a no-frills, incentive-driven compensation plan and a transparent reporting system. Richard Kinder is executive chairman of the company. He has built a successful career in the energy business, and the investment community has given him high marks for his performance. Kinder receives annual compensation of $1, with no bonuses or stock options. Since he owns roughly 11% of the company, his interests align closely with those of other shareholders. In June 2015, Mr. Kinder was succeeded as CEO by Steven Kean, who was formerly the company’s chief operating officer. Kinder Morgan projects 2018 distributable cash flow of $4.57 billion ($2.05 per share), up from a prior $4.46 billion ($1.99 per share) and adjusted EBITDA of $7.5 billion, up from $7.2 billion. The increases reflect improving industry fundamentals and stronger operating performance. Our upgrade reflects the company’s strong recent operational performance and attractive valuation, both on a historical basis and relative to peers. We also like management’s plans for substantial dividend hikes, which we view as a sign of confidence in the company’s strategy. We believe that Kinder Morgan is favorably valued at current levels given improving industry fundamentals and prospects for margin growth and higher dividends, and that a Buy rating is now appropriate. Our target price of $23, combined with the dividend, implies a potential total return of 25% from current levels.