When it comes to U.S. stocks, 2018 has already had its ups and downs. The recent return of stock market volatility has produced sensationalized media coverage, not least the Feb. 5 CNN headline “Dow plunges 1,175 — worst point decline in history” over a story that declared, “It was the scariest day on Wall Street in years.” The second-largest point decline in history — 1,033 points — followed days later. These declines are certainly notable. For investors taking a considered longer-term view, however, the outlook remains bright. The overall decline in the S&P 500 — from its all-time high on Jan. 26 to its Feb. 8 trough — is not a crash. In fact, it was a 10.16% decline, just crossing the threshold for what market officialdom would call a “correction.” That seems like a lot if you are watching wealth evaporate in real time on your mobile phone, but history tells us that this is a fairly typical occurrence in long-running bull markets. This bull market hits its nine-year anniversary in March, which sounds a bit long, but several bull markets have lasted longer. And each of them has featured a few corrections, too. In fact, a study conducted before this recent dip of every S&P 500 pullback since 1945 reveals that there were 77 drops of between 5% and 10% and that the average time it took for the market to recover was just one month. In the postwar period, there have been 27 corrections of between 10% and 20%, which have taken an average of four months to reverse. Even the eight bigger crashes, of 20% to 40%, took only 14 months to recover from. And by the way, of those 27 corrections between 10% and 20%, most took place during long bull runs in the market. They’re as common as acne on teenagers. While they seem serious at the time, pullbacks like the recent one typically fade quickly from our collective memories. Who remembers the 2011 stock decline during Europe’s debt crisis? Or the plunge in 2015, when oil prices collapsed? Will we remember this correction if stocks hit fresh highs four months from now, in June? For now, the vast majority of intermediate-term stock market indicators remain positive, suggesting a bullish outlook for stocks. U.S. equities are strong, with broad industry sector participation and high trading volume. And a strong January performance (stocks were up almost 6% in the first month of the year) usually sets a positive tone for the year. Nevertheless, there are reasons for concern — fundamental valuations for common stocks are somewhat high. However, rather than worrying about a terrible week for stocks, individual investors should look for signs that any sell-off might develop into a significant bear market (similar to the crashes of 2000–03 and 2008–09). One of the best indicators of the stock market’s health is its 200-day moving average — taking the stock market's price for the past 200 days and deriving a simple average. The rule of the average tells investors to sell if stocks fall below their 200-day moving average, and to buy stocks if they rise above their 200-day moving average. Studies show that investors who follow this rule enjoy reduced volatility, avoid major drawdowns and increase risk-adjusted returns. A chart of the S&P 500 shows that after the Feb. 8 sell-off, the index remained 43 points above its 200-day average. Corrections remind us that buy-and-hold investing makes little sense: The chart below of stocks from 2002 to 2008 looks as fraught with danger as a roller coaster. In my book Investment Atlas II, I suggest that a smarter strategy is rebalancing portfolios when markets rise to avoid having too much of one particular asset at any given time. Rebalancing helps investors avoid suffering too much as a result of the stomach-churning declines we have seen lately. (FORBES readers can get a free digital copy — just shoot me an email.) Of course, if you have not already been following a strategy of rebalancing, this is not the time to sell. As HSBC strategist Ben Laidler wrote after the Feb. 5 decline, “Fundamentally, little has changed.”