Interestingly, according to one major survey, economists have recently hiked their estimates for Core PCE inflation. Their median estimate for the 2Q is now 1.75% YoY and the 3Q is 1.9%. In order to get to this latter level, it will only require 0.153% MoM growth each month, which doesn’t seem too shocking or impossible to achieve, but still would probably surprise the market. In order to occur, assuming most other subcomponent trends remain the same, the medical and apparel deflators will have to start rising much faster than their recent slow pace or hedonics (quality adjustments) will have to have less effect on durable goods prices. Looking further forward, economists' median forecast for the 4Q is 1.9% and the 1Q19 finally reaches 2.0%, which has strong meaning for the Fed. Notably, the Fed’s heavy reliance on PCE inflation is hampered by revisions to this dataset, especially when the statisticians in their annual benchmarking use actual, instead of estimated data, for some services prices. If it were to be revised up, the FOMC might find itself behind the curve, so some care should be taken about relying just on PCE data. Thus, the Fed should equally consider the Core CPI, which is only slightly revised for seasonal adjustments and, thus, more reliable in many ways. It is running at 1.8% YoY after today’s shocking 0.349% MoM increase (nearly a 0.4% rise, which has only been hit a few times in the past twenty years), and 2.6% on a 6-month SAAR basis. If the Core CPI only rose 0.10% MoM going forward, it would hit 2.0% YoY next month and remain moderately above that level through June. More likely, it will hit 2.3% by that time. Notably, it exceeded 2% from late 2015 through early 2017, but slumped below 2% thereafter due to surprising (even to the Fed) weakness in auto, mobile phone service and medical prices. However, the Core PCE never exceeded 2.0% after 2012, which allayed Fed concerns about the CPI during 2016 and kept them on a extraordinarily accommodative path. Regarding economist consensus forecasts, however, it has to be noted that through July of last year, economists expected 2.0% Core PCE inflation by the 3Q18, only to reduce it to 1.8% in October through January. Could their one-year-out forecasts (1Q19) of 2.0% be wrong again? Certainly possible, but also certain is that the global economy is much more reflationary than it was last year, and barring a major global taper tantrum with associated economic and risk asset pricing effects, the odds of hitting or even exceeding this estimate are high. Fortunately, due to the recent decline in oil prices, gasoline prices should decline through June (on a seasonally adjusted basis), assuming that oil prices do not resurge. Thus, June’s Total CPI should remain near 2.7% YoY compared to the 3.0% that seemed likely a few weeks ago. This reduction in the Total CPI inflation outlook has been a relief to the markets and to the Fed, but the inflation threat is far from over. All of this clearly indicates that the Fed should not diminish its hiking cycle and might consider accelerating it because rates remain at greatly accommodative levels. It also should be sure to consider both PCE and CPI measures, as the former can be significantly revised.