Now that two days of 1,000 point drops in the Dow are behind us, investors are getting a clearer sense of what went wrong. Blame the VIX and the volatility funds. That seems to be the consensus now, despite the pushback by CBOE Global Markets over the last couple days against doing so. Trades in exchange-traded notes and options betting on volatility seemed to have gotten in the way. With those trades out of the way, for now, all eyes return to the Fed. The Fed remains the blind spot. On Wednesday, inflation rose more than expected on a monthly basis but look flat on a year basis. The question is: is this a trend and will inflation rise again in the months ahead? If it does, then inflation-- and by default, the Fed -- can pull the rug out from under the S&P 500. Does anyone at this point honestly believe 2% inflation is a serious headwind? "I think the market can handle two percent to two and a half percent inflation," says Tony Roth, CIO of Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors in Delaware. Year over year inflation came in at 2.1% and 0.5% on a monthly basis. "If investors are betting on Treasury yields to go higher, even to four percent, then I think they are misguided. The market will calm down."    Roth is right for now. The market has calmed down. Even with today's inflation more than double the 0.2% reported in December, the market went from a red open to a green one. The S&P 500 was up 0.4% by lunch break Wednesday. Oil was the biggest culprit in the Labor Department's monthly CPI reading. Retail sales recently came in below consensus thanks to lackluster car sales and home building goods. Inflation is not a runaway train, so maybe the Fed hawks can stay in their nests for a bit longer. Inflation and labor data are the two most important factors for the Fed these days. How the Fed interprets the uptick in January's inflation is critical to any investor looking to decipher the direction of the U.S. stock market. With retail relatively boring and oil the main culprit here, this readout may not be as bad as it looked when it was released at 08:30 this morning. The 10-year Treasury bond is still selling off, with yields now at 2.88%. Three percent is coming. The line in the sand, once at 2.7%, has been moved. See: Heres' How Much The S&P 500 Has To Fall Before We're In A Bear Market -- Forbes Here's How Much The S&P 500 Needs To Fall To Reach 'Great Recession' Levels -- Forbes U.S. Inflation Doubles In January, Thanks To Oil -- Reuters Inflation and the Bond Market Past episodes of rising rates in the period between 1970 and early 2017 in the U.S. and emerging markets, has shown that rising rates do not necessarily spell doom for fixed income investors, according to an in-house report by London-based asset manager Schroders.  Income assets of all kinds, including real estate, produced positive returns, on average, in rising rate environments , with the exception of government and corporate bonds, of course. Investors who bought a 10-year government bond last year were getting 2.4% yield. A new 10 year Treasury bond would yield 2.8%. So that means the investor holding the 2.4% bond would be seeing a capital loss on the bond price, because -- in simple terms -- who would want a 2.4% bond if they can buy the same one paying them 2.8% each year instead? Treasury bonds and investment-grade corporate debt perform worse when yields are rising because bond prices fall to compensate for rising yield. That's basically how it works. But other assets in an income portfolio have held up well, and some (think dividend stocks) have actually performed better in a rising yield environment, according to Schroders. They singled out emerging market local currency debt and dollar-denominated debt. They did not pick countries. "Investors need not necessarily panic (about generating income) as the impact of rising interest rates on income levels has been minimal," says Clement Yong, a Schroders strategist. "Companies are loath to cut dividends, given the negative signal that it sends to the market, while coupons on bonds are one of the first claims on a company’s income, ranking above other demands," he says, meaning investors that bought bonds yielding 2% or more aren't going to suddenly see defaults. They will get their 2% coupon payments. They will only take a loss if they sell the bond to buy the higher yielding one. (Mutual funds will surely do this.) In other words, income streams won't disappear. Newer issues will pay more, income streams could, in theory, rise, and compensate for the capital loss on older bonds. Rising interest rates and tighter monetary policies in the U.S., U.K. and Europe, will dictate a lot of the portfolio flow in the months ahead. The big emerging market shops all hope to persuade institutional investors to pour big money into higher-yielding emerging markets like Brazil and Russia. Flows have been positive for those countries for much of the last 12 months, according to fund trackers at EPFR Global in Cambridge, Mass. That goes for both stocks and bonds. Meanwhile, the Fed is paving the way for hiking interest rates and everyone knows it. The consensus is for three hikes of 0.25%, with the first one coming in March. Four hikes would pull the rug out from under the S&P 500. For how long is anybody's guess.   