President Trump's comments on Wednesday in favor of raising the federal gas tax should not have come as a surprise to anyone who has been paying attention. In fact, the President's Chief Economic Advisor, Gary Cohn, first raised this proposal back in October in a meeting with a group of Republican members of congress. I wrote in favor of that proposal at the time, and nothing has taken place in the intervening four months that would lead me to change my mind. Just as President Trump did on Wednesday, Cohn rolled out the proposal as a means of funding some of the costs of the Administration's $1.5 trillion Infrastructure plan. Given that much of that plan focuses on rebuilding and repairing much of the country's system of interstate highways and bridges, what more appropriate way do we as a country have of raising the money? The federal gasoline tax - and the state-level gas taxes that have been added onto it over the decades - is in fact a user fee. Originally put in place to raise funds during the Great Depression and first increased to help pay for U.S. costs of fighting World War II, congress raised the tax to 3 cents per gallon when it created the Highway Trust Fund in 1956, and dedicated the entire proceeds to the purpose of building and repairing the nation's roads and bridges. This is the classic example of a user fee, placed as it is on the people whose vehicles use those roads and bridges. The proper funding for those maintenance and repair activities has long been under-addressed by congresses dominated by both political parties. As I noted in that piece in October, the National Association of Manufacturers' (NAM) most recent study estimates that catching up on all the past neglect would require new investments over and above those already planned of $629 billion for highways and $112 billion for bridges over the next five years. NAM proposes an increase in the federal gas tax of 15 cents per gallon (it currently sits at 18.4 cents per gallon) as a means of funding a portion of that cost. President Trump talked about an increase of 25 cents per gallon in his discussion on Wednesday. Either way, both are in agreement that the gas tax - last raised more than a quarter century ago - needs raising, and it's pretty hard to mount a rational argument to the contrary, unless we are to be content as a society to just allow our roads and bridges to continue to deteriorate, at a cost to society of billions of dollars and thousands of lives every year, if the NAM study's findings are to be believed and I see no real reason to doubt them. Or, alternatively, to go ahead and pass a bill to fund the needed repairs and maintenance via more debt accumulation, so our grandkids can foot the bill, but haven't we already done too much of that as it is? Environmentalists and Peak Oil theorists ought to be right on board with the President on this specific proposal. After all, every increase in the cost of gasoline theoretically brings society closer to the magic day when the current theory says "Peak Demand" for crude oil will arrive, right? By the same token, a higher cost for gasoline should result in less demand for petroleum and more demand for alternative forms of transportation. Being pretty politically conservative myself, at least on fiscal issues, I don't really enjoy advocating raising taxes, and I have to admit to finding myself in the company of strange bedfellows on this particular issue, especially when it comes to the whole Peak Oil crowd, who I find to be generally entertaining, but pretty much always wrong. But at some point, we are going to as a society have to take responsibility for repairing and properly maintaining our transportation infrastructure, and that means properly funding it as well. It's the conservative thing to do. The reality is that, if there is one federal-level tax that actually needs raising, regardless of whether congress passes an omnibus infrastructure bill, the gas tax is it.