Stocks opened the session today on solid ground and actually stayed there. What’s more, they even managed to close at session highs, sending all three major benchmarks into positive terrain—something that looked pretty iffy early on. The Dow Jones Industrials Average finished higher by almost 1.4% while the S&P 500 did better, up 1.6%. But it was the Nasdaq Composite—the biggest laggard throughout most of this week—that appeared to steal the show, settling even higher, up nearly 1.8%. Looking even more unusual for this week, the markets saw a burst of buying activity in the last hour of trading to further juice the close. The S&P 500 might be worth taking a closer look at today. Throughout much of the week, it was holding at the 2,700 level, unable to finish above it. Not today. At its 2,740 closing level, it might be setting itself for a test next week to break that 2,750 resistance level.    As noted here many times this month, volatility was at play. Wall Street’s worry metric, the Cboe Volatility Index, or the VIX, tumbled 11.91% today, settling at 16.49 as it broke through support levels. Could this be another test next week? Could it go down to the 15.5 level? It’s unclear what motivated the market merriment, but some analysts suggested that the Federal Reserve’s dovish tone might have had some impact. In its semiannual monetary policy report, the Fed pointed to an upswing in inflation toward that end of the year, but didn’t suggest that it would prompt a more aggressive monetary policy, meaning that it’s still, at least for now, on track for three rate hikes this year. It stuck to its belief that inflation would hit or come close to its 2% goal. That might also have had some impact on the 10-year Treasury notes, which rose today, pulling yields down. The 10-year Treasury yield fell to 2.87% by the end of the day. Remember that prices and yields run in opposite directions. Oil prices also held on to gains, scoring their second straight week of gains as they continued to scrape back from the month’s earlier sell-off. West Texas Intermediate crude oil, the U.S. benchmark, climbed 1.2% to $63.53 a barrel, crawling back toward that $66.66 52-week high. For the week, it rose 3.3%. TD Ameritrade® commentary for educational purposes only. Member SIPC.  