Reviewing a dozen high profile operators’ 13Fs, too many portfolios show static ratios as low as 10%. This pattern of 40% sells, 40% buys spells hyperactive money management, never a felicitous indicator. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway list is 79% static, Icahn close at 70% along with Pershing Square Holding’s tamed down list. But, 3 positions - Restaurant Brands International, Automatic Data Processing and Mondelez International comprise 61% of holdings. Is this money management or hubris? Time will tell. I rarely go above 30% in my top 3 pretties because I require 8 hours of shut eye, nightly. Just as important as carping over these efforts is discovering what’s missing, overlooked market sectors and mega cap properties. Internet and e-commerce names finally pushed their way into most portfolios along with Apple, now as big a position, 14.5%, for Berkshire as long-standing Wells Fargo, an underperforming bank stock. Nearly 40% of Berkshire’s holdings are long held financials, nearly a triple weighting of this sector. What’s Trian Partners still doing in General Electric and Procter & Gamble, some 40% of assets? GE has been cut in half while P&G traded in a narrow range these past 12 months. No earth-shaking stories in this value construct portfolio geared towards shareholder activism. Like Carl Icahn and Bill Ackman, stirring the pot or going for control can be a mistake in a bull market. Tech stocks like Amazon and Alibaba carried shareholders to the moon past couple of years. I’m betting it ain’t over - even with their stretched valuations. Third Point had a good quarter powered by its 2 biggest holdings, 25% of assets, Baxter International and DowDuPont where I come out moderately bullish. This is a bull market list of Alibaba, Facebook, Alphabet and Netflix which I don’t see frequently elsewhere. Amazon is conspicuously absent. They own BlackRock. Very rarely do you find a money manager investing in an outsized operator like BlackRock which conceptually is its competition. Unlike Bill Ackman at Pershing, Buffett has owned his positions for 30 to 40 years with humongous unrealized capital gains. I have no use for his Coca-Cola, but Buffett was there long before it was a pedigreed nondurables growthie. Its water business now outgrows colas where per capita consumption topped out. Appaloosa Management defies my punditry that hyper turnover is a baddie. December quarter, nearly the entire portfolio was flogged. Micron Technology, a 10% position is a big winner on solid earnings growth. Some 30% of holdings cover Alibaba, Apple, Alphabet and Facebook. Bank of America is the lone bank at 5%. The market can’t go up without taking Appaloosa along. This is a pure bull market list. Greenlight Capital is a horse of a different color. Call it jet black with no white markings. The only contrary call I agree with is General Motors, a 19% position, somewhat reduced. Brighthouse Financial, nearly 12%, is a loser to date. Life insurance and annuities business is suffering in our low interest rate setting. Unless you believe interest rates are ready to spike, I’d stay away. Spread compression is a heavy cross to bear. Give ‘em credit for holding to a value construct while Amazon went to the moon. Carl Icahn and I go back 40 years or so, and he’s stuck to his value construct discipline and has more money. Carl likes a good fight while I seek to work intensively but in short hours. Carl’s a big winner. That said, I don’t understand why spend time over the future of Xerox, Hertz Global Holdings and American International Group which is my definition of a can of worms going through all the motions of restructuring but stuck in quicksand. Coatue Management pretty much duplicates the NASDAQ 100 with positions over 5% accounting for 60% of assets. The usual suspects: Broadcom, Facebook, Nvidia, Alibaba, Amazon, even Twitter, a big turnaround. Excepting courage, I’m not sure of their value added. High growth, high volatility, with plenty of turnover. In terms of carrying costs, owning an ETF in NASDAQ 100, up 35% last year, is a Consumer Reports Best Buy. Same goes for Tiger Global Management, a $12.5 billion asset base that hasn’t changed its stripes. Exceptions are Priceline Group and Apollo Global Management, 20% of assets, both buoyant properties so there’s some value added herein. Alibaba, Microsoft and Amazon are sizable holdings for me so let me not call the pot black. What can you say about Citadel Advisors, a $373 billion house? Very little. There’s no position above 0.3% but they do press for value added. Nowhere near an index fund. They’re more diversified. Micron Technology pops up along with Lowe’s, Comcast and Merck. Hard to take the other side on any of these holdings. Bank of America is their largest single position at 0.25%. I’m at 10% and very happy, up 50% past 12 months. Bottom line, Citadel looks like a modified index fund where management wants to keep a low profile and stay in business forever. JANA Partners at a smallish $3.7 billion had a bad quarter and nearly total turnover. Its portfolio reminded me of how far away from one-off investing I’ve turned past 20 years. Top 3 properties - EQT, Zimmer Biomet Holdings and Tiffany leave me cold and indifferent, but over one third of JANA’s assets. What can I say? Luck and pesetas, guys. Elliott Management’s $10 billion portfolio went negative in the December quarter. Very concentrated, with 40% of assets in NXP Semiconductors, Arconic and Hess which I owned years ago as a crude oil reserve asset play, but no longer. Why coal and shopping centers with Peabody Energy and Taubman Centers? These are legitimate recovery specs but macro trends like square footage cutbacks in retailing and coal’s environmental issues are real and long lasting. How does a $1.6 trillion asset base like Tudor Investment posture itself? Aside from a 24% asset bet on an S&P 500 ETF, hardly anything else is more than half a percent. Exceptions are Aetna and NXP Semiconductors where I have no opinion. Why Wells Fargo, but no other bank holding of size? This is pretty much a value construct, designed to last another 100 years. As for Glenview Capital Management, I give them high marks for successfully sticking to a construct of healthcare stocks with industrials like DowDuPont and FMC mixed in. But, turnover was huge and it looks like they underperformed in the roiling 4th quarter. This is a portfolio nearly 180° from mine, but I could live with it because their properties are easily defendable as to risk/gain ratios and present valuation. In summary, I was shocked at enormous portfolio turnover in most places. Nobody socked a 450-foot home run. The Internet finally got its due as to percentage representation. Aside from the General Motors play, nobody’s heavily into cyclicals as yet or even equal weighting financials. This could be on the table as sizable new themes to exploit. I see above average GDP numbers on tap with corporate earnings making $150 a share this year. This market is playable, but sector concentration tells the story. For me, it’s tech, financials and industrials. If I’m wrong on Alibaba, Amazon, GM, AT&T and Citigroup, I’ll flunk out. The smartest people I know in the business no longer stock pick. They just buy and sell indices like the NASDAQ 100 where you buy volatility. The funds I’ve written about here, don’t do much of this as yet. Sosnoff and his managed accounts own: Apple, Wells Fargo, Amazon, Alibaba, DowDuPont, Facebook, Alphabet, General Motors, Bank of America, AT&T and Citigroup. msosnoff@gmail.com