Trade war! The headlines are flashing across my screen this afternoon as President Trump's announcement of tariffs on metals have roiled the markets. The new tariffs—10% on aluminum and 25% on steel—will take effect next week according to the president, and the markets have not reacted well. Coupled with new Fed Chair Jerome Powell's moderately hawkish stance on short-term interest rates and this is a tough combination for the market to digest. Volatility has returned, but how much would the proposed tariffs impact the profitability of U.S. companies in the short-and intermediate-term? For large swaths of the market the answer is “not at all.” I cannot think of any impact on Facebook or Netflix, for instance, from a trade war in the metals markets. The market's fear, of course, is that these tariffs would lead to retaliatory tariffs from other countries, specifically China and the EU, likely to include products other than just non-ferrous and ferrous metals. So, to keep up with shifting market sentiment an investor must think one move ahead; if U.S. imports are being taxed, then the real losers would be companies that import commodities in bulk as raw materials and then export those materials in the form of finished goods. That's where the retaliatory tariffs would come into play. Fortunately for shareholders of U.S. companies, though, we just don't make that much in this country any more. U.S. current dollar GDP was $19.737 trillion in 2017 and U.S. exports were $1.547 trillion. So with exports only representing 7.8% of U.S. GDP, one might expect the impact to be centered on certain sub-industries, and I believe that will be the case. A quick check of data on U.S. exports (compiled, strangely, by the Census Bureau) shows that aircraft parts are the number 1 export in dollar terms, refined petroleum products are #2 and autos/auto parts/trucks make up the third largest subsector of U.S. exports. So, pick your "tariff targets," or stocks you should sell on fears of a trade war, accordingly. 