Last week BP released its 2018 Energy Outlook ("the Outlook"). The Outlook projects future energy trends under several different scenarios. BP Warns of Peak Oil Demand BP's baseline scenario for its projections is the Evolving Transition (ET) scenario, "which assumes that government policies, technology and social preferences continue to evolve in a manner and speed seen over the recent past." BP sharply raised its forecast for EVs in the ET scenario to nearly 190 million by 2035, versus 100 million in last year's report. This helped shift the company's forecast for peak oil demand from the mid-2040s in last year's EO to the mid-2030s in this year's report.    This change, in particular, captured a lot of media attention: Carbon Emissions Continue to Climb This new forecast is welcome news to those concerned about rising carbon dioxide emissions. However, largely unreported was this warning from BP CEO Bob Dudley that more action is required to address carbon emissions: In the ET scenario, global energy demand grows by a third by 2040. This is a much slower growth rate for energy than experienced over the past 25 years. This scenario notably assumes that China's industrial energy demand stops growing as the Chinese economy transitions towards less energy-intensive service and consumer sectors. However, as Dudley noted the ET scenario is inconsistent with meeting the Paris climate goals. In the ET scenario, BP projects that carbon dioxide emissions will rise another 10% by 2040. The outlook for carbon emissions was better when the company assumed more aggressive global action in two additional scenarios: Faster transition (FT) and ‘even faster transition’ (EFT). In the FT scenario, existing policy mechanisms are tightened by far more than envisaged in the base case. This leads to a carbon price of $100/metric ton in real terms by 2035. Other policy interventions encourage more rapid energy efficiency gains. The EFT scenario follows the same carbon emissions decline as in the IEA’s ‘Sustainable Development Scenario.’ In this scenario, most of the emissions reductions come from the power sector, which is almost entirely decarbonized by 2040. This leads to a drop in carbon emissions of nearly 50% by 2040. BP forecasts that energy consumption will grow under every scenario, but renewables play a far more significant role in the FT and EFT scenarios: The World Still Needs a Lot of Oil Also lost in the headlines about peak oil demand was this comment from BP's Chief Economist Spencer Dale: BP forecasts an increase in oil demand in every scenario, with demand peaking around 2025 in the EFT scenario and around 2035 in the ET scenario. In the ET scenario, global demand for liquid fuels (oil, biofuels, and other liquid fuels) increases by around 13 million BPD to nearly 110 million BPD by 2040. Most of the demand is expected to be satisfied by the U.S. and OPEC. Conclusions The fact that BP moved up its expectation for peak oil demand generated a lot of headlines following the release of its recent Energy Outlook. However, the company warns that there is much more work to be done, particularly in the power sector, to meet the targets outlined in the Paris climate accord. 