There's not enough money to go around in Venezuela. The solution: invent a cryptocurrency, rake in nearly a billion dollars. Nicolas Maduro launched his new cryptocurrency, the Petro, on Feb. 20 despite lawmakers saying that a digital coin backed by Venezuela's (dwindling) oil supply was a bad idea, maybe even illegal. It doesn't matter what the National Assembly says, of course, because the National Assembly, as far as Maduro is concerned, does not exist. His new congressional body of 'yes men' and 'yes women' known as the Constituent Assembly says the Petro is a fine idea. And with the cryptocurrency craze still alive and kicking, Venezuela is going to have no problem finding new sources of funding. Good for the near-bankrupt government. Not good for people who think the leaders there are terrible. The Petro throws them a lifeline. Siobhan Morden, a Wall Street analyst watching Venezuela's ticking debt bomb from the offices of Nomura Securities in lower Manhattan says Petro is part of Maduro's "desperate tactics" to improve cashflow and reduce the stress from quadruple-digit inflation. "We assume that the cryptocurrency creates more headlines than revenues, with sanctions...posing serious operational constraints (on the government)," Morden says. There is not much money to go around to buy votes in the April 22 presidential elections. That means it requires outright vote-rigging to keep Maduro and the Socialists United (PSUV) in power. As it is, Maduro has banned many leading candidates from running. Once the richest country in South America, Venezuela is falling apart. It is the biggest failed state in the Americas. Only El Salvador might be worse. Even Haiti is in better shape with a new, young president -- Jovenel Moise -- elected last year. The Venezuelans might as well transact in exotic Caribbean seashells because the Bolivar is that useless. Ten bucks will make you a millionaire in Venezuela. See: Venezuela Is The Biggest Migrant Crisis In The Americas -- Forbes Maduro's new cryptocurrency brought in $735 million on Tuesday's pre-sale. Total issuance amount is $6 billion, or roughly 50% of what the Central Bank of Venezuela has in foreign currency reserves. Some doubt the Petro raised anywhere near that. An article published on Thursday in tech publication Ars Technica called it "Bolivarian balderdash". It is unclear if common Venezuelans will have access to this coin, and most surely cannot afford to buy one. One Petro is base-priced on a single barrel of oil. A barrel of oil costs around $60, which is $6.4 million bolivars based on the black market rate in December. It is unclear how Washington reacts to sanctioning this new inflow of digital capital. Politically, the Maduro administration is shifting towards an “all or nothing” strategy. PSUV politician, military figure, and Constituent Assemblyman Diosdado Cabello said that National Assembly and local elections should coincide with presidential elections on April 22. If elections were democratic and the millions of Venezuelans living in Colombia were allowed to vote, it is safe to say that most would not vote PSUV. Holding elections for the opposition-held National Assembly early also cuts the tenure of those lawmakers short. For PSUV leaders to call for a general election assumes that the PSUV believes its politicians can win it all. For some reason hard to understand for non-Venezuelans (and maybe even for Venezuelans themselves), the political opposition has no counter strategy here. Their months and months of protests got them nowhere domestically. They did manage to get sanctions, however. Since then, Venezuela has only gotten worse. Some opposition figures have suggested they boycott the election, which is akin to outright forfeiture. Opposition parties Democratic Action, Project Venezuela, and Justice First have already said they were bowing out following the withdrawal of former Assemblyman Henry Ramos Allup from Democratic Action and Manuel Rosales from the centrist New Era party. Rosales was charged with corruption in 2006 during the Hugo Chavez presidency. He says it was political persecution. PSUV defector Henri Falcon is in the running, but his party -- the Progressive Alliance -- is small and would have a hard time raising funds. "The uncompetitive elections should invite a counter-response from the international community," Morden warned in a note to clients, many of them PdVSA bondholders hoping for payment. Many issues have been in restricted default since November. Washington holds the cards here. How they react to what seems like a shoo-in victory for Maduro, stacked with cryptocoins to his eyeballs, won't be known until after the April elections. Maduro is currently sanctioned from traveling to the U.S. or using the U.S. banking system. Morden is not holding her breath but thinks there is the chance for regime change by military intervention if cashflow stress continues. Maduro will have to exchange those Petros for dollars, or maybe Bitcoins. Will PdVSA bondholders, Russia's oil company Rosneft and China's petrochem giant Sinopec accept crypto for payments? They have been key funders of this government and its oil company over the past two years. The Petro coin might prove a brilliant way to fund this government rather than an act of desperation. But in a few short months, we may very well see the first ever sanction against a cryptocurrency by the Trump Administration.