The energy industry is not in a race to renewables but a race to lower carbon emissions, according to Bob Dudley, Chief Executive Officer of oil giant BP. Speaking at the International Petroleum Week in London on Tuesday (February 20), Dudley said: “For that to be achieved we need to be focused on the ends - and be agnostic about the very many means or fuels we will need. It’s great to see renewables grow so fast. But it is also great when gas replaces coal in power and halves the emissions. Or when a smart, high-performance hybrid car replaces a less efficient vehicle.” The BP boss noted that oil will be used with increasing efficiency, and gas has a bright future. “In fact, we think gas could grow three times as fast as oil, as it is used in heating, as fuel for ships and trucks, and in the power sector as the perfect partner for wind and solar power.” Dudley also remarked that after the shale revolution the oil and gas market had moved from scarcity to abundance. “We now estimate that resources recoverable today could meet the world’s demand to 2050 – at least twice over. It’s not that there’s more oil and gas – we’re just getting better at producing it. We actually increased production from our existing base operations in BP last year – up by 0.6%. That’s remarkable in an industry that assumes the base declines. “As we know so well, abundance has an impact on the oil price which in turn has an impact on capital and operational spend. It has created a new era of hyper-competitiveness, and that dynamic is here to stay.” In the upstream business, the winners are those who can produce their reserves most competitively, he added. “And in downstream, the winners are those who can manufacture and market their products most competitively.” Dudley, who has set BP on a relentless path to a break even target of $30 per barrel, reiterated his company’s focus on capital discipline. “I think we are finally saying goodbye to the old world where suppliers inflated costs in good times and operators squeezed them in bad. If we work together, we’ll break that cycle of boom and bust. “The forward pathway for the energy industry could be summed up in six words: more energy, lower costs, fewer emissions.”