Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke's recent proposal to expand offshore oil and natural gas drilling has set off a bipartisan uproar among politicians and pundits from coastal states. Opening America’s waters to energy exploration, they claim, endangers shorelines if not the planet. Critics paint pictures of black beaches, tar balls, and wildlife slicked with oil. They point to the damage done from the wreck of the Exxon Valdez and the more recent explosion of Deepwater Horizon. The former was an oil tanker that ran aground in Prince William Sound, Alaska in 1989. The latter was a drilling rig that erupted in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010. Both disasters not only stained the environment but also the net worth and reputation of some of the largest companies in the world. Deepwater Horizon cost priceless lives too. But to assume that expanded drilling off America’s coasts portends a repeat is to ignore a new generation of technology and business best practices, not to mention regulatory reform. The oil industry has indeed learned some very hard lessons. Background Sec. Zinke’s pro-development philosophy for the public domain puts America first. It is pro-consumer, pro-taxpayer, and pro-entrepreneur. It reverses Obama’s keep-it-in-the-ground plan that placed 94 percent of the nation’s Outer Continental Shelf off limits to leasing and development. Secretary Zinke’s 2019–2024 proposal, contrarily, would liberate more than 90 percent of the OCS acreage, representing 98 percent of “undiscovered, technically recoverable oil and gas resources.” Lease sales are proposed in federal waters off Alaska (19), the Atlantic (9), and the Pacific (7). Another 12 potential sales are in the Gulf of Mexico, which would simply extend the region where drilling has been commonplace and, other than Deepwater Horizon, without major incident. The US Bureau of Ocean Energy Management estimates that the newly authorized lease areas could hold almost 90 billion barrels of oil and more than 327 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, potentially worth several trillion dollars. Federal royalties would provide, in Zinke’s words, “billions of dollars to fund the conservation of our coastlines, public lands and parks.” Industry Learning Contrary to the claims of environmental activists and their allies, offshore drilling is getting safer -- much safer. The Exxon Valdez marked a turning point in oil transportation safety. Deepwater Horizon represented a similar turning point in the safety standards for offshore drilling. The industry has doubled down on training employees to recognize potential problems with rigs. Companies have also authorized their workers to shut down operations single-handedly, if need be. The industry has developed information-sharing networks for operators and companies to exchange best safety practices and safety intelligence. Tankers are now double-hulled. Regarding ship management (an issue with Captain Joseph Hazelwood of Exxon Valdez), ExxonMobil has taken strict preventive measures, instituting drug and alcohol abuse screening and prohibiting any employee with a history of substance abuse from performing sensitive operations or duties. Better technology will also help mitigate the harm of any future spills. ExxonMobil recently introduced a 100-ton stacking cap that can stifle wells spilling on the ocean floor, channeling the oil to a tanker on the surface. The device is a refinement of the one created on the fly to quell the Deepwater Horizon spill. Self-Interested Safety BP’s tab for Deepwater Horizon currently sits at $65 billion. With approximately five million barrels spilled, the cost of the accident is about $13,000 per barrel. On April 23, 2010, three days after the explosion, a barrel of crude oil cost $85.12. Meaning BP paid out 152 times as much money for each barrel as they would have made selling it. Because the cost of a spill is so consequential, companies also seek locational surety. ExxonMobil, for example, capped a Gulf of Mexico well after spending $187 million because of safety issues with its portending completion. Companies have also imposed stricter safety regulations on seismic surveys, which map out the ocean floor looking for new drilling sites. Progress is evident in spillage statistics both domestically and globally. In the early 1990s, for example, there were nearly 35 oil tanker spills per year. There were less than one-sixth that number in 2017. Regarding total spillage in and around US waterways, 2016’s total of 7,200 barrels (that’s all) was less than half of that in 2014 and less than one fourth of the 2000 total. Energy producers should certainly be held accountable for their mistakes -- and they have been. But imposing punitive regulations, as the Obama administration tried to do, is misguided. Excessive fines for trivial violations, or requiring unrealistic technology, is a subtle means for a keep-it-in-the-ground, anti-drilling ethos. Ecological Drilling Though coastal politicians may be loath to acknowledge the fact, offshore drilling can play an important part in protecting the environment by reducing the amount of hydrocarbons seeping from the ground and polluting the surroundings. Offshore rigs also become conduits for sea life. As Paul Driessen has documented. Instead of offshore rigs, environmentalist ire should be aimed at offshore wind turbines, whose radically high cost for generating electricity can only be described as socially unjust. Moreover, the 400-foot turbines would “chop up seabirds that will sink out of sight and mind; create obstacle courses for pleasure, military and commercial shipping; and emit constant low level noise that will interfere with aircraft as well as whale and porpoise sonar navigation and communication.” Share the Bounty? Involved coastal-state governors, Republican and Democrat, have opposed Zinke’s new plan. Senator Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) even called the plan “an assault on Florida’s economy, our national security, the will of the public and the environment.” Anti-fossil fuel ideology aside, the complaint reflects a skewed risk-to-gain situation despite the obvious benefits for America writ large. To change the politics, the US Chamber of Commerce and others propose that Congress allow some OCS revenues to accrue to the states. Revenue sharing has the anti-energy environmentalists worried. “You’re taking resources that are owned by the entire American public, and you’re bribing a select group to entice them to have drilling off their coasts,” complained Friends of the Earth. But OCS drilling competes against ANWR drilling and private onshore operations as well -- less here means more there, not less drilling overall. Let the market decide what is the least risky in terms of exploration and production. Conclusion The states are in line for an economic boom from offshore drilling in the years and decades ahead. Expanding offshore access in the Atlantic could support nearly 280,000 jobs nationwide and generate almost $200 billion in investment and operational spending. There's a vast expanse of untapped energy just off our shores, waiting to be inventoried and then developed according to market signals (consumer demand). It would be wise for coastal states to embrace the benefits it can bring them -- and for all of America. 