Despite the tug of war between rising U.S. oil production and output cuts put in place by OPEC and ten non-OPEC members fronted by Saudi Arabia and Russia, both the U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate, and Brent, the global proxy benchmark, appear to be fluctuating within a predictable $60-plus per barrel range. Looking to the upside, neither benchmark has capped the $70-level and maintained it in recent months. Examining the downside, neither Brent nor WTI futures have slipped toward, and stayed near, the $55-level for longer than a session or two. In fact, the said range has been in play since late 2017, and many in the industry believe it to be the catalyst for a bevy of merger and acquisition (M&A) deals last year. Experts at global law firm Baker McKenzie say plentiful financing and a strengthening global economy fueled energy sector deals last year, and its a trend that looks set to continue in 2018. The firm's latest report on the subject, compiled with Oxford Economics, notes that total M&A values more than doubled in 2017 to $345 billion, up from $164 billion in 2016.    James O’Brien, chair of Baker McKenzie’s Global Energy, Mining & Infrastructure Industry Group, forecasts M&A deal values to continue rising to a peak of $353 billion in 2018 before cooling in line with a slowing of global investment growth as borrowing costs rise in key economies and stretched stock market valuations start to soften. "There’s an expectation now that oil prices won’t go below $50 barrel, up from lows of $25 to $30 a barrel in recent years. It may not be $80 or $100 a barrel like it’s been in the past, but it’s sufficient enough to drive deals," O’Brien says. Across the regions, Baker McKenzie anticipates that Europe will see the greatest rise in energy M&A deal values this year, bolstered by an improving labor market, rising intra-EU trade, and growing business investment in the region. Hence, the firm forecasts European deal values to climb to $56.6 billion, up from $42.1 billion in 2017. However, North America will continue to lead M&A activity in the energy sector in 2018, although Baker McKenzie forecasts transaction values to dip slightly to $227.7 billion, down from $242.5 billion in 2017. "But a provision of the U.S. tax reform law that enables companies to write off capital investments on new projects the year they are placed into service is expected to stimulate investment in the industry, as is the Trump administration’s pro-energy policies," O’Brien adds. For Asia Pacific, the forecast for M&A deals is pinned at $50.4 billion, Latin America at $13.4 billion, and the Middle East and Africa at $4.5 billion. Away from M&A deals, the law firm predicts an uptick in Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) across a number of geographies, including North America, also in light of the relatively stable oil prices, as industry players seek to raise capital to acquire new talent and technology. The downturn of 2014-15 curbed enthusiasm for stock floatations, with energy IPOs seeing a valuation of $7.3 billion in 2017. But this is expected to double to $13.9 billion in 2018, with the prolonged downturn acting like something of a dam, holding back capital. Overall, Baker McKenzie reckons there are around three to four years worth of IPOs waiting to come to market, many of which could materialize before the end of the year. 