Just when you thought the cryptocurrency craze couldn't get stranger, up pops its most absurd proposition yet: the Petro. It is Venezuela's version of bitcoin, which is perhaps the best-known cryptocurrency. The Petro's "presale" launched February 20 and is expected to run through March 19. The goal is to raise up to $2 billion according to a recent report from geopolitical consulting firm Eurasia Group. The idea is that the Petro will be a government-run oil-based Bitcoin-type money. Venezuela has significant oil reserves. What the country badly needs is cash in the form of dollars or other convertible currency, and it would seem that the Petro is the latest money-raising vehicle. It may sound intriguing, but don't let the hype tempt you into investing in the Petro. There is so much wrong with it that it's hard to know where to start. Here are a few key points.    "Desperate Gimmick" is how Wall Street bank Brown Brothers Harriman describe the Petro, in a recent report. The BBH currency analysts are among the most level-headed individuals you'll find on Wall Street, so when they say "desperate," it pays to take note. The report notes the following: The problem is that the Maduro government has close to zero credibility with most people, especially investors. The country is plagued by hyperinflation which is currently running at more than 5,000% a year, according to Steve Hanke, professor of applied economics at the Johns Hopkins University. The people in the country are starving, and basic necessities such as toilet paper aren't available. In other words, the leader of the country that is launching the Petro can't even look after his own population. On top of that, the mechanism to determine how the oil price will play into the value of the currency hasn't been made clear. Eurasia Group describes the link between the Petro and oil reserves as "vague," which is hardly reassuring for investors. Its creation was possibly illegal. Venezuela's political opposition believes that the Petro isn't legitimate. "Because it appears to be a form of debt, they claim it must be approved by the legislature," the BBH report states. Given Maduro's lack of popularity at home and the doubts about the Petro's legality, it is possible that the opposition will declare it void if or when they get into power. That will leave investors with little but broken promises. U.S. citizens could break the law by purchasing the Petro, according to the Eurasia Group report, which states: The Treasury isn't something with which investors should tangle. Venezuela doesn't respect private property. Under its socialist regimes, the country has shown little regard for property rights whatsoever. If you think it won't happen to you, then first read this 2012 report from Reuters, which details a multitude of asset seizures. The Petro should be seen as private property and therefore at risk of forfeiture in Venezuela. The cash raised via the Petro won't un-sink the government, says the Eurasia Group report with the following line: History is against the Petro. "Venezuela has had a long history of producing junk," writes Hanke in a Forbes post late last year. He continues: Just like Bitcoin, the Petro still won't be money. As I have written previously in the context of Bitcoin, in order to be money the Petro will need to have three attributes: it must be a medium of exchange, a unit of account, and a store of value. Based on everything mentioned above, it seems that the Petro is even less likely than Bitcoin to ever fill the role of money.   