The possibility of four rate hikes this year was the takeaway from Tuesday's testimony by Fed Chair Powell. The stock market dropped, while bond yields rose in reaction to his comments. Little attention was paid, however, to his more positive than expected outlook for the economy. Powell testified again today, where he softened his comments on rate hikes for this year. The bond experts in the financial media have been warning about the bond bear market for several months. Just last week, legendary investor Warren Buffett warned that rising yields will increase portfolio risk. The large speculators and hedge funds have been taking note, as the number of short positions in the T-Note futures rose almost 30 percent in the five weeks ending on February 16. The recent peak in the short position of the large speculators (point b) was above its prior high from March 2017 (point a). The T-Notes bottomed two weeks later as the 38.2% Fibonacci support calculated from the June 2007 low had been reached. The next week, the open interest dropped below its 21-period WMA (point 1) as the shorts started to close out their positions. The T-Note futures rose 4% or $5000 per contract, peaking in September 2017. The open interest dropped about 350,000 contracts (about 40%), bottoming out in mid-July, about nine weeks before the T-Notes peaked. Now, the T-Notes have reached the major 50% support level, so a rally in the near-term would not be too surprising. The daily technical studies already show some signs of a bottom, as the on-balance-volume (OBV) has been rising while prices have been falling. This is a sign that the volume is greater on the days that T-Notes closed higher. It has therefore formed a bullish divergence (line b) and has moved well above its WMA. The Herrick Payoff Index (HPI) spiked well into positive territory last week and has also formed a bullish divergence. As I discussed in a previous article, the HPI uses the price, volume and open interest to measure money flow. A move in the June contract above the resistance at 121, (line a) should start to worry those on the short side. If the futures are able to overcome the more important resistance at 122 it would complete a daily bottom. A rally in the T-Note futures and a decline in their yield to around the 2.74-2.78% area should take some the market’s focus off the bond market. It is likely to help the Spyder Trust (SPY). Many investors continue to think that rising rates must be negative for stocks, but that is historically not the case. A decline in yields should benefit some of the beaten-down, interest-sensitive ETFs, like the Utilities Select Sector (XLU) and the Vanguard Real Estate (VNQ). It may pressure some of other sector ETFs, such as the Financial Select Sector (XLF) and the SPDR S&P Regional Banking ETF (KRE), but I doubt it will alter their positive intermediate term trend. The COT data is updated each Friday with data as of the prior Tuesday. I will be updating this market analysis over the weekend on Twitter. If you are interested in following my style of analysis I hope you will consider the Viper ETF or Viper Hot Stocks reports. Specific recommendations are sent out twice each week and each report is only $34.95 per month.