Once again, talk of a new federal gas tax arose in Washington this past week. Last Wednesday President Trump mentioned that he could support a new $0.25 tax on gasoline to help fund infrastructure plans. Though no one is sure if this was a concrete proposal or just an off-the-cuff remark, the mere thought of new gas taxes makes drivers, industry folks and investors stop and think. With gas taxes, more than most taxes, the impacts can be unpredictable both for consumers and for businesses. The impact of a gas tax is different than the impact of a tax on any other product, because the price of gas fluctuates so much. When gas is cheap—for instance when it averaged barely over $2.00 per gallon at the end of 2016—most consumers can bear the added expense and can psychologically justify the added cost of new gasoline taxes. However, gas prices can quickly rise (or fall), and when the price is high—for instance when it would regularly spike well above $3.50 between April 2011 and June 2014—consumers cannot afford the added burden of a gas tax. Furthermore, at high prices, the psychological impact of any added cost per gallon can alter consumer behavior. The truth is gasoline prices are not predictable. Take a look at this helpful interactive chart from GasBuddy. When we talk about adding a gas tax at a time like today, when gas prices are low, we seem to ignore that in the future, commuters could easily have to pay several more dollars more per gallon. Between 2009 and 2011, the price of gasoline more than doubled. An added $0.25 tax would hurt even more. Then what potential impact would a new gas tax have on businesses and investment? For the gas companies that fuel our cars such as ExxonMobil XOM +0% For example, imagine the price of gasoline at $4.00 per gallon. Americans would already be conscious of their consumption and many would limit their driving. Then add a $0.25 tax and consumers see a $4.25 price. Gasoline usage would drop even further, yet the gas companies would not be able to collect that extra $0.25 for themselves. Demand would be depressed, but the price would be the same (from the gas companies’ perspectives). We do not know when the price of gasoline will rise or fall, but it will do both. That is the nature of the oil market. Because of that unpredictability, and because of the large fluctuations, gas taxes can alter markets and economies more than expected and a gas tax that seems like a good idea today, can have unintended consequences tomorrow. 