In an August of 2017 interview published in American Way magazine, former President George W. Bush provided a rather crucial insight into Vladimir Putin: the Russian leader wasn’t always so arrogant. As Bush described it, “Putin changed when I was president. Early on, Russia was broke and he wanted help, and I thought he was going to promote a civil society that enabled people to have a big say in their government. When the price of oil went up, Putin began to change.” The shame for Bush is that to this day he hasn’t put two and two together. Specifically, he hasn’t signaled any understanding of the why behind skyrocketing oil prices during his presidency. Up front, they weren’t caused by booming economic growth. Figure that economic liberalization around the world in the ‘80s and ‘90s authored a global boom during which oil prices plummeted. By extension, the surging oil price wasn’t caused by global suppliers having been caught unaware of rising demand in the 21st century. Such a view insults producers who met our global needs rather easily in the ‘80s and ‘90s. It also ignores that U.S. production in the 21st went skyward. Whereas domestic drilling was almost non-existent in the booming ‘80s and ‘90s, it subsequently surged during Bush’s years in office. Notable about all this is that there was a major, and rather global recession that hit in 2008. This downturn lingered for quite a while. Despite that, the price of a barrel of crude continued to rise, and sat above $100 right up until the fall of 2014. So what’s the riddle? Readers of this column are aware of what’s true: oil never became expensive in the 21st century. Suppliers didn’t falter, nor did they fail to meet surging demand. What happened was that the dollar in which oil is priced declined in value. Arguably the best way to think of it is to calculate your height if suddenly the foot were reduced to 1/5th of its previous size. If so, six footers would stand “30 feet tall” despite no change in their actual length. Applied to the dollar, it began to sink during Bush’s presidency. This was by design. Bush and his Treasury expressed a preference for a weaker dollar and markets complied. Presidents get the dollar they want. Bush’s failure to understand the dollar wrecked his presidency. Plain and simple. Economic growth is always and everywhere driven by investment. Investors are buying dollars in the future. But if the currency is in decline, they’re less likely to commit capital to intrepid, growth enhancing concepts. They instead migrate to the real, or the known. The problem is that there’s much less growth in the known. So known is oil that some of the most backwards countries on earth (think Iran, Equatorial Guinea, and yes, Russia) can readily export it. Better yet, its value in dollars rises when the dollar falls. The economy was weak during the Bush years because a weak dollar shrank investment in the ideas of the future. Instead, investment flowed to the past. Nothing against oil and its crucial role in the global economy, but its market value was established long ago. The U.S. is the richest country in the world precisely because its best and brightest are constantly discovering the previously unknown. Which brings us to a recent op-ed by Bard College professor Walter Russell Mead. Mead was writing about oil, and specifically Putin. As he put it, “Fracking frustrates Vladimir Putin more than sanctions, and much more than harsh rhetoric at the United Nations. When the price of oil is $150 a barrel and every country is desperate for energy, Russia casts a long shadow over the EU. When oil is at $60 a barrel and supplies are plentiful, Russian leverage is dramatically diminished.” With time, the professor will likely wish he hadn't written the aforementioned op-ed. Up front, Mead mistakes the nature of oil markets. They’re global, and oil is always available at the market price. Foreign policy has nothing to do with it. Just as the Arab oil embargoes totally and completely failed when it came to keeping “Arab oil” from reaching the U.S., so would have any Russian attempt to restrain energy flows to European countries. Applying this to Europe, every EU country could be at war with and embargoed by every oil producer in the world (including Russia), yet each would still be able to consume the oil as though it had bubbled up in London, Paris and Berlin. That’s the case because there’s no accounting for the final destination of a market good. The embargoed can always buy from those not embargoed. Mead’s op-ed ignored world history along with basic market realities. More crucially, his op-ed glossed over oil price history. This matters because in 1998, the price of a barrel was $12. Back then, the U.S. energy industry was largely obsolete. Seemingly unaware of how inexpensive oil was at the end of the 20th century, Mead was reduced to cheering on an extraction technique that has reached full flower at a time when – by his own admission – a barrel is trading for five times what it was in 1998. Some will say 1998’s number is cherry-picking, so how about January of 2002? A barrel cost $21 then. It was at this time when Putin wasn’t terribly arrogant. His country was broke. Well, of course it was. With the dollar still relatively strong, oil was cheap. Notable about all this is that the fracking that Mead claims is a source of frustration for Putin has been around for decades. Few had heard of it before the 21st century because while it’s plainly an innovative concept, it’s one that only makes economic sense insofar as the dollar is severely devalued such that oil prices skyrocket. Oil wasn’t suddenly scarce in the 2000s as much as the dollar was wrecked. Fracking is unnecessary when the dollar is strong and oil cheap, but when the greenback is debased, a subsidy forms. For fracking to have an economic purpose, every American must experience a devaluation of their earnings through a shrunken dollar. Taking this all back to Putin, Bush’s pursuit of a weak dollar is what pushed oil prices upward, thus reviving an innovative, but largely non-economic form of oil extraction. Nominally expensive oil not only reinvigorated fracking, but also a formerly broke Russian leader. Fracking frustrates Putin? No. The Bard professor can’t have meant what he wrote. That fracking matters today explains why Putin “matters.” If fracking is the story, then oil is being kept artificially high by a weak-dollar subsidy in the U.S. that didn't exist under Ronald Reagan, or for that matter, Bill Clinton. Unknown is when conservatives will wake up to this reality. Taking nothing away from oil and the oil industry, it only does well stateside insofar as the broad U.S. economy suffers, and global despots morph from broke to arrogant. John Tamny is a Forbes contributor, editor of RealClearMarkets, Director of the Center for Economic Freedom at FreedomWorks, and a senior economic adviser to Toreador Research & Trading. He’s the author of Popular Economics (Regnery Publishing, 2015), Who Needs the Fed? (Encounter 2016), and then his next book, The End of Work (Regnery) about the ongoing explosion of jobs that don't feel like work, will be released in 2018. 