Global energy and commodities market information aggregator S&P Global Platts has announced the deployment of its proprietary blockchain solution that will facilitate submissions of weekly oil storage data by market participants in the United Arab Emirates port of Fujairah. The port’s Fujairah Oil Industry Zone (FOIZ) hosts the Middle East's largest commercial storage capacity for refined oil products. Platts already partners with the port as an exclusive publisher of its weekly inventory numbers, as Fujairah steps up its efforts aimed at becoming a global trading hub. Revealing the move at the International Petroleum Week in London on Thursday (February 22), Platts said its development and full scale commercial deployment of the blockchain distributed ledger technology - in collaboration with FOIZ, regional regulator FEDCom and 11 terminal operators that use Fujairah - will offer "operators security, together with ease of use, and a full audit trail to collate weekly inventory oil products storage data." It added that the new technology will improve the manual and unstructured process by which the terminal operators communicate their weekly inventory numbers to FEDCom. The new solution alleviates the need for FEDCom to undertake manual validation and aggregation of each terminal operator's numbers, reducing the scope for human error." It involves a permissioned submissions environment where terminal operators submit data to FEDCom through smart contracts on individual private channels. FEDCom in turn runs a second smart contract, with an automatic command to calculate and submit data to Platts on a public channel. James Rilett, Senior Director of Innovation and Digital Strategy at Platts, said the platform, built on the opensource hyperledger Fabric framework, represents a first for oil markets by offering a full blockchain deployment to provide market participants with data that is increasingly critical in the region and to the global oil markets. "This provides additional security and convenience for terminal operators. As part of our on-going commitment to digital transformation in the energy sector and delivering innovative solutions, we are excited about the opportunity to engage with market participants to discuss ways of deploying this technology more broadly to help improve efficiency and manage risk in a secure environment." Sohail Iqbal, Member of the Development Committee at FOIZ, said: "The innovation represents the next step forward in Fujairah's ambitions to become a global hub for commodity trading. It will allow our terminal operators to be at the forefront of technology while at the same time operating at the highest level of security."