At the extremes, there are two ways to invest. One way is to set a portfolio and stick with it forever. Another course is to trade actively and aim to beat the market. Both extremes are challenging. It's hard to acquire enough of an edge and have the discipline to beat the market after all costs. Yet, it's also hard to have the discipline to sit back and do nothing as the market's mood swings from doom to excitement and back again. The Merits Of Value Investing Against this backdrop, value has been shown to be one to more productive ways to improve a portfolio over time and markets (the research is here). It doesn't happen all the time, but generally over periods of years value may boost returns. What does value mean? Value is typically buying what is cheap, perhaps because it's out of favor, perhaps because there are unwarranted fears for the future, or perhaps because something is simply 'on sale' today. That's not to say that other strategies can't work too, but value does have a pretty robust track record as an investing concept. At its core, value investing represents buying what is unpopular or out of favor. Some people find that relatively easy to do, others don't. If value investing appeals to you, read on. So if you wanted to have a value bias in your portfolio today, how would you go about it? Well, you could consider purchasing a value leaning fund within the US market. There are various metrics for assessing cheapness - dividends, price to book value, price to sales, price to earnings and EV/EBITDA to name a few. There are various ETFs that own companies in the US market with a greater bias towards cheapness on some of the sort of metrics I've just given. For example the Vanguard Value ETF (VTV) owns cheaper US large companies. However, the problem here is that the US market isn't particularly cheap overall currently.    For example, the Vanguard fund just mentioned has a price to earnings ratio of over 20x currently. This is not what you'd typically consider value when the average price to earnings ratio for the S&P 500 is 15x over past decades. Hence, buying value within the US market may be helpful, but it's only relative value, even cheap stocks in the US market may appear expensive in absolute terms today. So, rather than buying value for the US market alone, here are a few other strategies to achieve value in a portfolio: Inexpensive Foreign Stock Markets Even though the US may appear expensive, various international markets appear to offer better value. Nobert Keimling and Star Capital maintain a detailed list of regional valuations here. They identify the US market as relatively expensive, but China and Russia are two markets that may offer value currently. Both have a price to earnings ratio of less than 10 (so less than half even the value portion of the US market) and offer dividend yields of over 3%. China has the benefit of rapid growth in recent years which many expect to continue and Russia could benefit from recently higher oil prices, since energy is a large component of the Russian economy. Russia Russian exposure can be added through the iShares MSCI Russia ETF (ERUS) that ETF has exposure to 29 larger Russian companies including energy companies and banks. Unfortunately, the expense ratio at approximately 0.60% a year is higher than ideal, though there aren't many simple choices for Russian exposure. Russia is one of the more attractively valued markets in the world currently, so the prospect of improved returns may compensate for a higher expense ratio. China China is harder to find a robust ETF for. Even though the market appears cheap and the Chinese economy is enjoying robust economic growth, many of the ETFs that offer Chinese exposure don't have the same low valuations as the Chinese market as a whole. In part, this is due to limitations on foreign ownership on Chinese companies and also due to different company and sector exposures. The iShares China Large Cap ETF (FXI) offers exposure to some of the largest and most liquid Chinese companies, with again a relatively high expense ratio of 0.74%. As an alternative, the KraneShares Bosera MSCI China A ETF (KBA) provides exposure to a slightly different set of Chinese firms. These are less liquid, but may benefit from the opening of Chinese markets to international investors over time. The expense ratio is currently slightly lower at 0.64% currently. China potentially offers value to investors, but is also growing at around 6% a year, which is double most developed market growth rates. So China may offer a rare combination of value and growth. At a time of apparently expensive US market, investing abroad can be a good move to position your portfolio for value. This strategy can also aid portfolio diversification, China has different economic trends to much of the world and held up in the 2008 crisis better than most, and Russia is more weighted to the energy markets than many countries and so is more tied to the oil price than global growth. That said, less developed markets can also be riskier at times of market stress and have potentially less investor-friendly regimes than more developed economies. Nonetheless, opening your portfolio to positions in foreign countries via ETFs can be a way to broaden your investment horizons and potentially improve diversification especially if you aren't seeing value in US markets currently. 