America owes much of its economic prosperity in the era of electricity to inexpensive coal power. Without affordable coal power, American living standards would have been much lower during the past century than has been the case. Nevertheless, recent technological advances have made the recovery of America’s huge natural gas reserves efficient and inexpensive. As a result, it makes economic sense to replace many of America’s existing coal power plants with new natural gas plants that can produce electricity at lower cost. Coal power has long been vilified – often unfairly – by the environmental left. Such vilification can lead conservatives to respond with knee-jerk support for coal. Supporting coal against exaggerated environmental claims does not, however, mean that conservatives and affordable energy advocates should disregard changing economics that once lifted coal to market-share dominance but now argue for more cost-effective alternatives. America became a coal-powered society because abundant domestic coal supplies allowed the powering up of America at affordable prices. Since power plants began electrifying America nearly a century ago, coal was unchallenged as America’s least expensive power source. Prior to 2016, coal powered more power plants than any other source – and often more than all other sources combined – precisely because of the economic benefits of coal. Energy is the lifeblood of our economy and our society. Virtually every good and service traded and sold in our economy is to a significant degree impacted by energy prices. When energy prices rise, the costs of goods and services throughout the economy rise, stifling economic growth and household living standards. When energy prices fall, the costs of goods and services fall, stimulating economic growth and benefiting household living standards. Despite longstanding opposition from the environmental left, coal power was a primary factor in America’s rising living standards and globally dominant economy during the past century. A decade ago, however, technological advances gave birth to new and inexpensive means of recovering abundant oil and natural gas from shale rock formations. Directional drilling and hydraulic fracturing (fracking) advances unleashed an oil and natural gas revolution that transformed America into an energy superpower. American oil production broke OPEC’s hammerlock on global oil prices and availability. American natural gas production brought clean-burning natural gas to market that has become less expensive than coal power. In 2008, coal powered more than twice as much American electricity as natural gas – 48% to 21%. By 2016, however, natural gas overtook coal as America’s most prevalent power source. As natural gas power overtook coal power, American electricity became less expensive. American electricity prices are now lower in inflation-adjusted dollars than they were in 2008. Replacing coal with natural gas reduced American energy costs and provided American consumers more money to spend on goods and services such as nutrition, housing, education, health care, and consumer goods. An excellent study by the Institute for Energy Research, published in 2016, documented that natural gas power is now 16% less expensive than coal power. The closing of coal power plants during the past decade – often justified on environmental grounds and viewed with concern by conservatives and affordable energy advocates – brought economic benefits because the coal power plants were replaced by natural gas power. Moving forward, would closing more coal power plants and replacing them with natural gas power plants jeopardize affordable energy? The experience of the past decade tells us the answer is no. A closer look at energy economics demonstrates why. In a paper I recently published for the Spark of Freedom Foundation, I document how natural gas power plants are relatively inexpensive to build. Spread out over a designated life span of 30 years, the construction costs of a new natural gas power plant add approximately a dollar per month to the average household electric bill. In reality, natural gas power plants will likely operate for at least 50 years, reducing the already minimal construction-cost impacts even further. With natural gas power 15% less expensive than coal power, and with huge and easily accessible domestic natural gas reserves assuring natural gas prices will remain quite low, the minimal costs of building new natural gas power plants are easily dwarfed by the per-month price savings of utilizing natural gas power. In short, the decade-long economic benefits of replacing coal power with natural gas power will continue in future decades as well. Some people have argued that it makes little economic sense, after fully paying for an existing coal power plant, to dismantle it and incur the additional costs of building a new natural gas power plant. The shortcomings of such an argument are evident in an analogy with automobiles. A majority of U.S. coal power plants were built before 1977. As I point out in my Spark of Freedom Foundation paper, a person who owns a 1977 automobile with 300,000 miles on it has already paid for the automobile in full. Buying a new car will incur an immediate additional expense. However, the 1977 automobile is less efficient, less reliable, gets far fewer miles per gallon, needs more regular maintenance, has many older parts that will need expensive repairs or upgrades, and still won’t provide the comfort, performance, and amenities of a new car. Given all this, most consumers have wisely purchased a new car since 1977, even though they could have kept driving the 1977 car that they had already paid for. The same reasoning applies to replacing old coal power plants with new natural gas plants. Conservatives are well-justified in being vigilant for affordable energy. As technology advances, so too will the composition of our affordable energy production. Natural gas power has become more affordable than coal power, and America’s ongoing transformation to natural gas power will continue benefiting the American economy. 