Covering decades of financial history, only two Federal Reserve Board chairmen won my respect. First was William McChesney Martin, who reigned in the sixties. He understood the dynamics of business cycles then. They were induced by corporate exuberance, namely capital spending and over-inventorying. McChesney kicked up interest rates and took care of such corporate nonsense. As for Wall Street, Martin sniffed the air and early-on squelched overspeculation. He’d take away the Street’s open-to-buy (the punch bowl) with 100% margin requirements. I’d be scurrying around for money brokers who’d bankroll my convertible debenture picks at 10 points of collateral. (Converts fell outside margin regs). Later, 1982, Paul Volcker jacked up interest rates to 15% to crush the country’s high inflation expectations. Volcker plunged us into recession, the S&P 500 Index selling down to book value and 10-times earnings. Lots of heartburn, but the UAW and Teamsters no longer called the shots. They had forced wage rates up 8% per annum, the country no longer competitive. General Motors and Ford showed no backbone then, so Volkswagen and Toyota took share of market. Ironically, Volcker lived frugally in a Washington D.C. efficiency apartment, but carried a big stick, nearly destroying us in order to save us. Fast forward to the opening page of the FRB’s recent economic report. It put me to sleep, a total wimp-out, warm porridge minus the handful of raisins. Catch their bloated phraseology: “The staff reviewed the uncertainties around its projections for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate and inflation as similar to the past 20 years.” (They see core inflation at 2% through 2020.) Economists themselves term the “nothing much changes” projection as the “naïve forecast” because something always changes. Actually, the past 20 years waxed tempestuous. For example, the tech bubble in 2000 plunged the country into recession and eviscerated the stock market. Where you been, guys? Almost everyone knows GDP is unpredictable, even latest quarter. The FRB at 2% growth stands way below the newly congealed consensus approaching 3%. I place higher, seeing a build in end product demand, turnaround in capital spending and better trade figures. I’m betting on General Motors as my industrial of choice selling at 6.5 times this year’s earnings power. Tax cut, record low unemployment and surging jobs creation spell out staunch personal consumption expenditures, probing above 70% of disposable income. Consider oil’s volatile trajectory. When Iraq overran Kuwait in 1990 oil popped from $17 a barrel to $28 in a couple of days. Into 2001 OPEC discipline held oil above $25 a barrel for longer than anyone dared to forecast. By 2014 when ISIS invaded Iraq, the market was a bit wiser. Oil quotes just ticked up a couple of bucks, hitting over $100. Some of the past 20 years’ upsets: Brazil and Russia defaulted on their debt interest payments. Long-Term Capital Management missed the Russian default in October ‘98 and self-destructed. Currently, Puerto Rico and Venezuela writhe as basket cases. Past 100 years presidents got shot, drought hit the soybean belt and corn crop yields got sliced as cattle futures spiked. For sure, volatility is a way of life for investors but not economists. Intraday variances in stocks like Amazon, Facebook, Alibaba and Alphabet run as high as 5%, sometimes more. The bond market’s no different. Upward pressure on Treasuries ranging from 2 to 10 years caught almost everyone asleep. And, yet, interest rates remain sizably below their long term normalized trend. Lest we forget, postwar charts on 10 and 30-year Treasuries find us at least 200 basis points below the norm. More for AAA corporates, nearly 300 basis points lower than 20 years ago. The Fed panicked in 1984 when the economy was booming and Treasuries yielded 13.5%. I remember, too, Arthur Burns increasing the money supply to help get his president, Richard Nixon, reelected. Who knows how much of President Trump’s tax package hypes GDP, helping Republicans maintain primacy in 2018 elections? Linear extrapolation - what economists do, is the worst kind of group think. It never catches turning points. Instead of concentrating on whether conditions are changing for the better or worse, relative to expectations, it concentrates on the generality - things are good or bad. This is exactly what the FRB is doing, currently. Blindmen groping for the shape of the elephant, offending nobody, particularly the White House. Do a 180. Anticipating change at the margin is what money managers are paid to do. Economists tell you now that the rate of savings in the country sits very low. Sooner or later, consumer demand needs to slough off. But no economist dares tell you when this should take place. So the FRB’s pronouncements radiate pure inertia, embracing a time zone of several years ahead. I discount most generally accepted indicators of sentiment and volatility like the ratio of puts to calls and the costs of hedging, sell or buy side. VIX is a worthless indicator, for me. Same goes for Street’s pundits who fear getting too far outside the acceptable consensus on S&P 500’s earnings, sectors to overweight or underweight. Mid-2014, for example, analysts grossly underestimated earnings for leading properties like Alphabet and Facebook. Quarter after quarter, the consensus on Internet properties and e-commerce stocks like Amazon and Alibaba falls wide off the mark, the stocks fluctuating wildly, overnight. One last stab at Central Banking’s obtuseness: Years ago, the IMF’s senior economist, Prakash Loungani pointed out that during the nineties, only 2 of the 60 recessions in his country sample were predicted correctly a year in advance by the consensus. In two-thirds of the cases, recession stayed unpredicted in April of the year in which recession took place. The consensus expected 3% GDP growth in the year of the recession, itself, going uncorrected until October of the same year. Alas, the market probably marks time because its price-earnings ratio approaches 20 times. The Treasury yield curve is flattening out from 2 to 10 years at a higher level. Ten-year paper easily can move up 50 to 60 basis points to 3.5%. Materials prices and wages work higher than 2% in a snappy GDP setting. The dollar finally can show relative strength to the euro and pound because our comparative yields on Treasuries widen further. No more dollar drain. The U.S. is the new swing producer of oil, so world supply is more than adequate, even in a 3% GDP environment. The Fed’s worry about too low inflation numbers is an academic conceit. We could be closer to 3% a year out, but nobody making policy dares be anticipatory. If the market is a shade pricey, stock picking becomes the pivotal variable. I’m in both growth and value, but big cap paper. Microsoft, Amazon, Alphabet, Alibaba, General Motors and AT&T. I don’t see energy, but industrials retain operating profit margin leverage which is what to look for. No pharma or nondurables stories emerging among big cap names like Coca-Cola and Pfizer. Bank stocks like Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase still playable. By midyear, tech houses should be discounting 2019 projections, thereby rationalizing current prices. Yes, I know, many growthies appreciated 50% to 100% latest 12 months, some market capitalizations breezing past $500 billion. Does Amazon emerge as numero uno in the S&P 500 list? A big maybe, displacing Apple, rolling in liquidity, selling at a reasonable price-earnings ratio. Nobody talks about Amazon’s price-earnings ratio even 3 or more years ahead. It’s impossible to model Amazon so all of us grasp onto tenuous metrics. Mine is operating cash flow. While FRB members blandly forecast more of the same, growth stock players await confirmation that our feverish ciphering ain’t pie in the sky. We’ve a better chance of being right than the naïve projection. Sosnoff and his managed accounts own: General Motors, Amazon, Facebook, Alibaba, Alphabet, Microsoft, AT&T, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase. msosnoff@gmail.com