With the fall in commodity prices in late-2014, and the subsequent drop in rig count and production levels, it was a natural call to write-off Williston Basin (most notably known for the Bakken formation) as yet another casualty of energy market forces. But are the Bakken bears hanging on too long? Sure, concerns over lack economic drilling locations over the very long-term could be warranted, but it may too soon to start planning the funeral. When you break down some of the data, the Bakken has a good trajectory. Yes, rig counts and oil prices are down from their 2014 peak, but initial production rates have ramped and differentials have fallen. As a result, production is on the verge of setting new highs and the recently expanded oil pipeline infrastructure leaving the area is on track to fill within 18 months. The drilling dynamics in the Williston have certainly changed. At the peak when oil prices were above $100 per barrel, rig counts hit 198. However, with the subsequent fall in oil prices in late 2014 and again in early 2016, rig counts fell to as low as 22. Since then, oil prices have rebounded to above $60 per barrel. In response, rig counts have also come up to above 50. While this is a mere 25% of where they were, the rigs active today are much more productive than they were in the past. The biggest driver is the fact that the 30-day average initial production (IP) rates for each well have dramatically improved. In late 2014 those rates were around 500 barrels per day. Following the drop in oil prices there was an immediate lift in IP rates as producers improved operationally and focused in on their most productive acreage. Since then, IP rates have continued to climb and as of late last year they were above 800 barrels per day. Top performers in the basin like Marathon Oil have seen IP rates above 3,000 barrels per day and overall average around 1,600 barrels per day. Differentials have also narrowed in the region improving the economics for producers. With the in-service of Energy Transfer Partner’s Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL), production has been able to shift away from higher cost rail to lower cost pipeline transportation. Shipping rates on the new system are as low as $5.60 to the Gulf Coast, compared to $10-$12 for rail. In late 2014, as much as 57% of all the oil in the region was moved out by rail. That level has now shifted to only ~8% of overall takeaway. This shift to lower cost pipelines has improved spreads substantially. In 4Q 2014 the price differential from Bakken to the Gulf Coast was around $12. Today that spread has fallen to under $5. In an interview on CNBC’s Squawk on the Street, Harold Hamm, CEO of Continental Resources, lambasted critics who have said the Bakken’s best days are behind it. According to Hamm, “The Bakken is back stronger than ever.” It is easy to dismiss Hamm’s comments given he has an obvious stake in the game as CEO of the largest producer in the Bakken. However, recent production growth increases and outlooks lend merit to his comments. According to the North Dakota Pipeline Authority (NDPA), production in the Bakken peaked at 1,312,362 barrels per day in December 2014 when rig counts were at their highest. Production levels then plummeted over the next two years to as low as 998,623 barrels per day in December 2016. Since then levels have ramped dramatically back to 1,249,170 barrels per day as of November 2017. Preliminary estimates from NDPA and producers in the region indicate production levels will likely dip over the next few months due to weather related drilling slow down and well shut-ins. However, my own estimates indicate around mid-year the basin should surpass the 2014 high and be well on the way to filling pipeline space again by early to mid-2019. Just this week, Energy Transfer Partners, part owner and operator of the 520,000 barrels per day Dakota Access Pipeline announced a binding open season for expanded capacity on the system. In the past, they have listed the DAPL system as expandable up to 570,000 barrels per day. Additionally, producers in the region have indicated they expect growth. In Continental Resources 4Q earnings call, they guided to 15-20% while Exxon indicated 37,000 Barrel per day (50%) growth. In total, operators across the basin are indicating around 150,000 barrels per day year on year production growth. All of this seems to point to an under appreciation for the potential outlook for the Bakken and companies operating in it. This is not to suggest that all these companies are not fairly valued but merely to say that it is certainly past time to take another look. The paradigm that existed post 2014-2016 of falling production levels and significant pressure on midstream companies that transport out of and within the region needs to shift. East Daley is an information and data company that provides unprecedented clarity into the North American energy sector for investors, private equity and oil and gas companies. Powered by the largest energy asset database and a team of unbiased, experienced research analysts, East Daley provides its clients unparalleled insights. Check out East Daley’s most recent research! 