Investors have long understood the importance of diversification across industries; as the saying goes, don’t put all your eggs in one basket. Many experts also emphasize the value of global diversification. Here, several leading advisors and MoneyShow.com contributors highlight favorite stocks based in Europe. Todd Shaver, BullMarket According to the FDA, AstraZeneca has been granted orphan drug designation for selumetinib (MK-2206 & AZD6244) for the treatment of Neurofibromatosis Type 1 (a disease-causing tumors on nerve tissue). I consider this a big drug development. AstraZeneca and Merck (MRK) collaborated to investigate the combination of the two compounds. All development costs are shared jointly. FDA orphan drug designation is primarily a function of the disease, not the drug — drugs that target diseases with fewer than 200,000 US patients will be granted orphan designation, and in some cases drugs targeting more than 200,000 patients can be granted the designation when the FDA judges that costs could not otherwise be recovered. The bigger driver right now is the oncology business. While the company has gone all-out in immuno-oncology, there is more work to be done. The potential of the broader cancer portfolio should see growth in 2018, in part by acquisition. We are excited to see new data and potential acquisitions related to immune-oncology this year. Remember, we are in a new era of fighting cancer that is honestly more exciting to think about than just simply what it means for stocks. It’s a big deal for the world. We feel AstraZeneca is a strong value here. Revenues are steadily running around $16 billion-$17 billion annually. EPS is closing in on $3. Many argue the stock could be worth 20x EPS or more. And you get a 4% dividend yield while you wait. This feels like a profitable situation to us. And if we are wrong, it is hard to see the stock trading too much lower as the dividend yield should hold the stock up. Bob Ciura, Wyatt Research's Daily Profit International stocks tend to get much less coverage in the financial media than U.S. stocks. But in the search for high-quality stocks, investors should not ignore international dividend stocks. While the U.S. stock markets appear overheated, there is much more value to be found in the international markets, particularly Europe, where stocks remain cheap. Let’s take a look at three of the top European dividend stocks for 2018. Royal Dutch Shell , headquartered in The Hague, Netherlands, is an integrated oil and gas giant, based in Europe. Shell is a prime example among international dividend stocks that could be more attractive than U.S.-based industry peers. It has maintained its hefty dividend, even amid the oil and gas industry downturn that took place from 2014-2016. In response to plunging commodity prices, Shell cut $20 billion from capital spending. Shell’s integrated structure also helped it survive the downturn. In addition to exploration and production businesses, which are highly reliant on the price of oil and gas, Shell has a large refining business. Refining activities are not highly exposed to the price of oil, which helped Shell remain profitable through the downturn. And, now that oil prices are rising once again, Shell is a major beneficiary. By the end of next year, the company expects $10 billion of new cash flow each year from its project lineup. Best of all, Shell has a 5.2% dividend yield, and the company generates more than enough cash flow to sustain the current payout. As Shell realizes growth from new projects, there could even be room to increase its dividend payout. Diageo is a giant in the alcoholic beverages industry. The London-based company manufactures some of the most popular spirits and beer brands in the world, such as Johnnie Walker, Smirnoff, Captain Morgan, Baileys, Tanqueray, Guinness, Crown Royal, Ketel One and more. Diageo has 20 of the world’s top 100 spirits. Diageo’s strong brands provide the company with the ability to raise prices each year. Combined with global scale, the company is a cash machine: Diageo’s free cash flow increased 27% last year. The company also has a strong foothold in the emerging markets, which gives it an edge over its U.S.-based competitors. More than 40% of Diageo’s annual sales are derived from Asia, Latin America and Africa. Diageo has a semi-annual dividend, which yields 2.2%. The firm makes up for a relatively low yield, with high dividend growth rates. The final semi-annual dividend payment last year was raised 10% from the same dividend the previous year. High growth from the emerging markets can easily continue to provide for 10% dividend increases each year, enhancing its position as one of the attractive international dividend stocks. Vodafone is a major telecom provider, based in London. Like Diageo, Vodafone also has a huge presence in the emerging markets. Approximately 25% of its annual sales come from Africa, the Middle East and Asia. Vodafone has over 500 million mobile customers. Vodafone’s future growth potential is very attractive, because the company is about to take a huge step forward in India, a key emerging market. Last year, Vodafone announced a huge merger between its Vodafone India subsidiary, and India-based Idea Cellular . This is a huge potential catalyst. Vodafone pays a semi-annual dividend. Vodafone has an attractive dividend yield of approximately 4.6%. John Buckingham, The Prudent Speculator Deutsche Post provides freight forwarding, international express parcel, mail delivery and supply chain services. The 520-year-old company delivers more than 59 million letters daily in Germany to more than 40 million customers, and its DHL express parcel service operates in more than 220 countries. DPSGY has a diversified revenue stream, with 31% coming from Germany, 30% from the rest of Europe and 39% from the rest of the world. After a solid 2017, the stock has tumbled in the first month of the year, but we think that snail mail will have a place for the foreseeable future and DPSGY’s effort to diversify with the DHL Supply Chain business (the largest global contract logistics provider) will give it a leg up on its European competition. Supply Chain margin growth should also pick up as the company sheds unprofitable customers as a part of its 2020 plan. We also believe that DPSGY (which yields 2.4%) can benefit from the Amazon-style online shopping that hasn’t taken over Europe yet, as well as its leading position in more profitable European express and parcel mail (most other carriers haven’t diversified yet in Europe). While online shopping might not reach the level it has in the U.S., primarily because of different consumer behavior, a global marketplace of goods available at the click of a button is incredibly enticing. Jim Powell, Global Changes & Opportunities Report I believe that the best investment plan to follow at this point is to invest in high-quality stocks that have already fallen over a cliff. It’s not to say that fallen angels won’t decline if the market drops sharply because they will. However, they will usually drop less than the market and will bounce back more quickly. Longer-term, blue chip fallen angels also have good track records for fixing the problems that drove their prices down. When the angels find their wings again, the profits they often deliver can be eye-popping. Volkswagen is surprising investors in the other direction. I recommended this fallen angel in October 2016 right after its diesel emissions scandal was exposed. When “diesel gate” was reported, VW’s stock plunged 45.1%, from $51.25 to $28.13. VW’s management subsequently decided that rather than fight the diesel problem, it would ease itself out of that old technology and move instead to producing electric vehicles (EVs). The company has since made considerable progress towards that goal. VW may become the world’s biggest EV maker by 2021. Volkswagen is already the world’s largest car company by sales, and it made new records in 2017. In addition to VW, the company owns Audi , Porsche and 10 other brands that are sold worldwide. The bottom line is that our $28.13 investment in Volkswagen is now up 53% and I think more gains are on the way. John Eade, Argus Research GlaxoSmithKline , based in London, is a global healthcare company engaged in the discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products. While most companies in the Big Pharma group have moved beyond the patent cliff phase and are beginning to grow, Glaxo has lagged, as it faces pricing pressure and generic threats to its respiratory blockbuster Advair/Seretide. The drug will soon face generic competition, though generic manufacturer Mylan MYL +0% Management has taken aggressive steps to leverage the company’s strengths, which include consumer products, vaccines and anti-infectives. Recent results are showing improvement, though generic competition poses a major threat to growth in 2018-2019. A new CEO has come on board and could accelerate the transformation. The company posted its most recent results on February 7. For the fourth quarter, total revenue rose a pro forma 4%, in constant currency, to GBP 7.6 billion. Along with the earnings release, management updated its guidance. The guidance hinges on the timing of a potential launch of a generic competitor to Advair. If there is no launch in 2018, management expects Glaxo’s earnings to increase 4%-7%. If a competing product is launched by midyear, then earnings are expected to be flat to down 3%. In 2016-2020, management expects sales to grow at a low- to mid-single-digit annual rate and EPS to grow at a mid- to high-single-digit pace. Management anticipates that at least one version of generic Advair will be released during this period and that Glaxo will divest noncore businesses. Meanwhile, Glaxo’s fastest-growing Pharmaceutical category is HIV. Lead products in this business, which are sold through the ViiV Healthcare joint venture with Pfizer PFE +0% Turning to our EPS estimates, we are raising our 2018 earnings per ADR forecast to $2.82 from $2.75, as we expect a lower tax rate and solid sales growth to offset much of the risk of generic competition for Advair this year. Assuming a competitor reaches the market — which remains uncertain — we expect modest growth EPS growth in 2019 to $2.85. Looking farther out, Glaxo’s long-term growth will be driven by its new product pipeline. Promising Glaxo products that are currently near the top of the pipeline or already in front of regulators include Nucala, for COPD; fostemsavir, for HIV-1 infection; the 2857916 BCMA antibody-drug conjugate, which has received breakthrough therapy status from the FDA for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Glaxo shares appear attractively priced at current levels near $37. From a fundamental standpoint, given the fluid nature of the company's earnings, we are less reliant on P/E analysis and more focused on price/sales and yield. On price/sales, the stock is trading at a discount to the peer group; the yield of 5.9% is also well above the industry average. Given the company’s new growth pharma products and the promising outlook for the vaccines businesses, we believe that Glaxo merits valuation metrics more in line with industry averages. Our revised target price of $42 implies a yield of 5.1%. 