The oil and gas sector's relatively new zeal for operational efficiencies and process optimization shows little sign of ebbing. Many believe a fresh wave of innovation is already underway as the sector inexorably marches toward "Energy Industry 4.0." That’s good news for one such digital evangelist - Peter Zornio, Chief Technology Officer of global engineering and industrial solutions giant Emerson's automation division. In an interview on the sidelines of IHS CERA Week 2018, in Houston, U.S., Zornio says from a solutions provider's perspective, the oil industry is now more efficient at $60 per barrel, than it ever was at $100. "Emerson is cognizant of new demands for optimization from oil and gas customers, and my division is changing from being the proverbial 'automation guy' to a solutions partner in pretty much every area of the value chain except for drilling and completion." Two service facets that keep Zornio buzzing happen to be what the company describes as its "Project Certainty Initiative" and "Prescriptive Software." "Starting with latter facet first, we have for decades provided upstream and downstream instrumentation control systems and broad oil and gas consulting services that we continue to constantly improve and enhance. They are now backed up by our prescriptive software, which in simple terms is a software that not only detects if there is something wrong or spots workflow issues, but can also help clients address that in the most cost efficient and fastest way possible. "Premised on our software offering, one area that we are hoping to grow in is the connected service model; the idea that you completely outsource process services to us. So when it comes to reliability and monitoring of an offshore facility, we already offer a number of services for remote monitoring of motors, valves, cooling towers or heat exchangers, etc. "But what we are now working on is a different model – a proposal where we become a turnkey supplier directly looking at client equipment and alerting them when something goes wrong." Zornio admits the wider industry might not be comfortable with such an outsourcing service provision just yet. "I'd say initially smaller owner operators are more likely to go after it than the big majors. It is not clear yet to what degree some functions in the traditional operational sphere that the oil majors would be willing to outsource. "There would be understandable nervousness in companies being willing to outsource core functions. But Emerson can, for those folks, do tremendous work on the ancillary functions and health and safety, and we are already in talks with several Engineering, Procurement, and Construction (EPC) contractors. We feel there are tremendous efficiency gains for the industry to be made here." The service offering leads on to Zornio’s other proposal - Emerson's Project Certainty Initiative. "To provide some context, our research, in step with industry data, shows that over 65% of projects greater than $1 billion fail, with companies exceeding their budgets by more than 25% or missing schedules by more than 50%. In the current climate do oil majors really want that kind of capital wastage? They don’t. "A shared digital workforce of the future will bring the industry to the next level, and its what we are actively working to promote. Via our services, we offer what our initiative says on the tin – project certainty, if we are brought in right at the beginning of an oil and gas project. "Let’s take oilfields, the instrumentation and its software underpinning that we are putting in place in 2018, is very different from what it was as recently as 2013. We are talking about integrated operations centers, real-time data, frequent updates of [prospection zone] maps, using mobile tools and more. "In short, we're bringing the reservoir and production teams closer underpinned by digital; a far cry from the 1990s with guys driving around the drilling site in trucks with sticks and tapes. "This could be a model that could transform the industry, and let's be frank - could transform us from being a pure technology platform provider to being a supplier of direct outcome-based services." And to achieve its ambitions Emerson's approach is? "Via a very capable portfolio built on organic growth, in-house research and development, and strategic acquisitions." The company recently acquired Houston-based Paradigm, a service provider of reservoir planning and modeling software, from subsurface to topside. Additionally, its acquisition of ProSys, a provider of software and services with built-in intuitive processes for control room operators to enhance production and safety for oil and gas, petrochemical and refining industries, complements an earlier acquisition of MYNAH Technologies last year, which provides dynamic simulation and operator training software. Emerson also recently took over GeoFields, a provider of software for pipeline integrity data. "These forays go hand-in-glove with our research and development across the energy spectrum, for instance our new technology solutions for microgrid and renewables markets that are scalable and flexible for far-flung energy resources, and our market leading position in exploration and production software." In terms of the road ahead, Zornio sees the Emerson of the future being as much about its connected services and Software as a Service (SaaS) provisions as it would be about all the kit and digital apps it supplies. The digital avenues are clear, he adds, but how and to what extent they get deployed would shape the industry. And with the U.S. shale revolution in full swing, he jokes: "North America is the new emerging market – new ethylene facilities to new terminals, prospection activity to midstream, business expansion possibilities are immense." Away from North America, Zornio sees huge opportunities in the Middle East. "Especially Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, who have big spending plans. We're just getting started with the new wave of global digital optimization." 