The investment in new oil development and production is a constant endeavor. That’s because new oil demand remains a constant reality. Utilized heavily in transportation and the petrochemicals used to "manufacture thousands of different products that people use daily, including plastics, medicines, cosmetics, furniture, appliances, electronics, solar power panels, and wind turbines," I've shown how oil demand has been rising by 1.3 million b/d per year for 50 years. What's past is prologue. Fueled by strong economic growth, forecasts for oil demand from the leading computer models see the world needing an extra 1.4 million b/d to 1.7 million b/d in the coming years. Thus, by 2025….the world will be using around 3.2 million gallons of oil-based liquid fuels…every minute. That's about 5 Olympic size swimming pools of oil consumed every 60 seconds. Holy smokes! Unfortunately, the weak global investment picture remains a very serious concern. The International Energy Agency now says that the U.S. and a few other nations (e.g., Brazil, Canada) will be able to meet soaring oil demand over the next few years, but the picture after that becomes a lot murkier.    The problem is that the oil industry has delayed and/or canceled many mid- and large-scale projects since the oil price collapse started in 2014. Given "lower-for-longer" oil prices, more producers turned to short-cycle projects, and over $1 trillion in investments in new supply has been lost since. This is a major problem: over the next five years alone, we will need enough investments to add 20-25 million b/d to the global supply chain. Unfortunately for 2018, IEA sees just a 6% uptick in oil investments, this coming on the heels of 25% reductions in 2015 and 2016. We are way lower that pre-2014 levels, and after rising to close January, prices are now back to about where they were to start the year. Looking further ahead, required upstream E&P investments in new oil supply are massive in the years ahead, and grow with each passing year. To avoid a potential shortfall, IEA concludes that around $640 billion is needed in E&P spending every year through at least 2040. In 2016, just $430 billion was invested. The U.S. alone needs an annual $120 billion in E&P alone, not to mention investments in new pipelines and other supply infrastructure. Just think about it: the investments required to simply replace natural well declines is huge. Each year, the world loses 3-4 million b/d in production from legacy fields. That’s like losing a Brazil and Qatar every year. Despite mounting demand, new oil discoveries are at their lowest levels since the 1940s. In the U.S. – which again has importantly been installed as the main supplier of incremental demand – oil investments must remain particularly high and steady. While our drillers are unique in their ability to rapidly ramp production up or down based on price movements, shale wells can hit peak production rather quickly and subsequently go into steady decline. Tight, shale oil accounts for nearly 60% of our crude output alone, and will by far be the main source of incremental supply. An oil price spike due to a lack of investment leading to undersupply amid rising demand could bring a global energy crisis and economic devastation. Oil, after all, is still easily the primary source of U.S. and world energy, meeting 33-35% of all demand. Economists continually warn us about oil spikes because they’re strongly correlated with the onset of recessions. And remember that, while there are indeed four global oil benchmarks, oil is the ultimate "global commodity sold on an international market." This means that oil prices are co-integrated across the world: "it's one great pool." For example, I’ve already shown how closely the two most important grades that impact us Americans, Brent and WTI, move in tandem. Thus, it’s clear that “a lack of oil investment anywhere can lead to higher prices everywhere,” so investments need to be encouraged everywhere. Moreover, if we don’t deploy substantial oil investments here in the U.S., we will dangerously be handing OPEC and Russia the surging market on a silver platter. Both have huge expansion plans to continually supply the world with increasing amounts of oil, not to mention how both are fixated on developing a longer-term alliance to counter the U.S. shale revolution in particular. Indeed, the "keep-it-the-ground" movement isn't just unreal but antithetical to our national and economic security. The good news is that new oil investments in the U.S. will help feed a surging export business that could now soar to 5-6 million b/d of crude and 9-10 million b/d of total oil in the next five years, per IEA. 