Judge Shelly Dick wrongly enjoined completion of a project whose environmental and economic benefits far exceed its costs On February 27, 2018, Judge Shelly Dick issued a preliminary injunction in Atchafalaya Basinkeeper v. United States Army Corps of Engineers temporarily blocking the completion of an extension of the Bayou Bridge Pipeline (BBP), a 24-inch buried pipeline, designed to transport up to 480,000 barrels of various grades of crude oil over about 163 miles from Lake Charles Louisiana to terminal facilities in St. James Louisiana. The total investment related to the completed pipeline is estimated at $750 million. Judge Dick issued her ruling on the grounds that the various plaintiffs, including the Atchafalaya Basinkeeper and the Sierra Club, had made out a credible case that the Environmental Assessment (EA) prepared by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) for the proposed pipeline had not met all of the permitting requirements set out under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the Clean Water Act (CWA) and the River and Harbors Act (RHA). Accordingly, Judge Dick held that these gaps in the record that the Corps had assembled in its EA meant that it had acted “arbitrarily and capriciously” when making a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI). She enjoined the project to allow for the preparation of a more complete Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to address the perceived shortfalls in the plan relating to steps for the mitigation of environmental losses, and for analysis of the cumulative impact of the BBP project in relation to other infrastructure projects in the Atchafalaya Basin (Basin). Under established law, Dick concluded that NEPA “is a procedural statute that demands that the decision to go forward with a federal project which significantly affects the environment be an environmentally conscious one.” Tellingly, this formulation does not impose any similar procedural requirement for the maintenance of the status quo ante, which shall, as this article demonstrates, allow a court to ignore the continuing dangers of the current state of affairs. I am writing this critique of her decision in my capacity as an advisor to the GAIN Coalition (Grow America’s Infrastructure Now)—a coalition of businesses, trade associations, and labor groups whose own activities are dependent on reliable and cheap sources of energy consistent with the optimal demands for environmental safety. Judge Dick’s decision is antithetical to that mission, and if it is allowed to stand, it is highly likely to increase the risk of environmental degradation in the Basin that everyone on all sides of the current litigation hopes to avoid. In order to make out this claim, I shall proceed in three stages. I shall first set out the basic information about the proposed pipeline extension, which is freely available from the BBP website— none of which was challenged by either the plaintiffs or Judge Dick. I shall then examine critically the complaint filed by, among others, the Atchafalaya Basinkeeper and the Sierra Club to show how it distorts the basic record. Finally, I shall look at the opinion written by Judge Dick in order to explain why it was in serious error to impose a preliminary injunction on further work on BBP in the Basin until a full-fledged EIS is filed. The BBP. The basic choices about pipeline construction, location and design were well set out in the initial fact statement prepared by BBP. As matters now stand, the delivery of crude oil to the St. James facility takes place by three means. The use of other pipelines that run through the Basin, along with shipment by railroad cars and trucks. The safest by far of these three modes of transport are pipelines, which are single-use operations subject to greater monitoring and control. Trucks and railroad cars operate in mixed environments under highly variable conditions in which the likelihood of accidents is higher, and the consequences of accidents more serious to both human beings and to the activities in the Basin. The most salient environmental benefit of the BBP is therefore to reduce the risks of current modes of shipment, by replacing them with a state-of-the-art pipeline buried under the Basin. The BBP will be located near pre-existing pipeline facilities so as to avoid creating fresh environmental damage and private expense of locating the pipeline along some different route. The construction corridor for the BBP has been reduced from the 100 feet used in the uplands to 75 feet in the wetlands. Much of that will be reclaimed after completion, and the service easement needed to maintain the BBP is reduced from the 50 feet used in uplands to 30 feet in the wetlands. The BBP will utilize low-weight bearing equipment to reduce strain on the soil and will have buoyancy control devices and outer coverings that will eliminate or reduce any harmful interactions with the immediate environment. The entire BBP will be equipped with state-of-the-art detection and monitoring devices to control leaks or spills within minutes after their detection. Any heavy equipment will be placed on highlands to reduce environmental stress in the wetland areas. By the Plaintiffs’ own estimates, the Atchafalaya Basin spans approximately 1.4 million acres, two-thirds of which is covered by cypress-tupelo swamp. Plaintiffs have further stated that construction of the BBP would affect about 300 acres of that swamp – representing only 0.03 percent. There are somewhere between 5 and 17 old-growth cypress trees within the permanent right of way, which constitutes about 0.003 percent of the total old growth cypress trees in the total basin. The Plaintiff complaint. Sadly, the plaintiff’s complaint makes no references whatsoever to the major benefits, discussed here, from constructing BBP. Instead what the complaint does is make the strong claim that “[i]f this natural capital were treated like an economic asset, its total economic benefit to the nation would be $330 billion to $1.3 trillion per year.” Those numbers are of course inherently impossible given that it postulates that the Basin is worth somewhere between 1.7 percent and 7 percent of the United States gross domestic product (GDP) that is just under $19 trillion. But given the limited scope of this project those numbers should be reduced a thousand-fold to somewhere between $330 million to $1.9 billion. Indeed, if any of these extrapolations of GDP were remotely correct, it would be all the more important to get the analysis right. And since, as will become clear, the theory of the plaintiffs fails at every level—the larger the GDP, the greater the social losses from adopting its theory. It is therefore important to break down the complaint to its key components. On the initial question of whether the pipeline should be built, the complaint takes the cavalier position that “the Pipeline is unnecessary because crude oil already moves between these two locations.” Later on it states that “the Corps failed to consider credible record evidence that the project is not needed at all. Instead, the project simply offers one corporate entity an opportunity to profit from the transportation of crude oil, presumably to the detriment of other entities who currently profit from such transportation, as well as the public and Plaintiffs, who rely on the ecological health of the Atchafalaya Basin.” The entire tenor of these remarks ignores how BBP can operate more cheaply and safely than its rivals, thereby lowering both cost of shipment and environmental risks. These statements also ignore the obvious possibility of increased demand for the shipment of fossil fuels for both domestic and foreign consumption, which could not be satisfied by current facilities. Worse still, the plaintiffs seek to buttress this point by insisting: “Although touted as a critically important piece of infrastructure, the Bakken [DAPL] pipeline has been operating significantly below capacity since its inception.” The point overstates the shortfall, as current estimates puts the utilization rate at about 86 percent. But even if the figures were lower, it should not influence the outcome. Pipelines often operate below capacity at inception. That reserve capacity provides room for expansion, without having to build additional facilities later on. Indeed, even in the short run DAPL has altered the entire landscape of the Bakken fields for the better. The secure transmission system has reduced costs, which in turn has allowed for the expansion of production by 135,000 barrels per day, while increasing employment levels and taxation, without a single significant event, and while eliminating the use of some 1200 cars and ten of the twelve trains used to ship oil south. On the other side of the equation, the plaintiff’s complaint manipulates basic statistics in ways that overstate the risk of spill damage associated with pipeline operations. Thus the complaint states that “ETP [the parent company of BBP] and its subsidiary Sunoco Inc. were responsible for 329 “significant” pipeline incidents in between 2006 and 2017—a rate of over two a month— losing over a million gallons of crude oil and imposing an estimated financial cost of over $67 million.” But the supposed implications of these numbers, even if taken at face value, are the opposite of what was intended. The annualized losses from the entire operation of a far larger system over that period resulted in about only $5.5 million per year and the loss of 83,000 gallons (or about 2000 barrels of oil, system wide) on an annual basis. But even those estimates are high because they do not reflect the enormous improvements in pipeline transmission. Thus the American Petroleum Institute reports: “A comparison of three-year spill averages for the periods 1999-2001 and 2009-2011 shows a 60 percent decrease in the number of spills per 1,000 miles of pipeline and a 43 percent decrease in the volume spilled per 1,000 miles of pipeline.” The technology has continued to advance since that time, so that the anticipated rates of spillage are still lower. ETP’s overall system of pipelines is extensive, spanning approximately 71,000 miles, which implies that the likelihood of damage along this small segment of state-of-the-art pipeline is at most a few barrels of crude oil per year. Dick’s statement of the procedural emphasis of the NEPA thus reveals a fatal bias. Nothing need be proved to preserve the dangerous status quo, but huge legal obstacles are put in the path of any effort to reduce the anticipated environmental damages. NEPA makes it clear that alternatives should be investigated, why then not a single word about the status quo? What is needed from the complaint is some useful suggestion of what could be done to make matters better. What is provided instead is an endless litany of unsubstantiated shortfalls. There is an instructive parallel in this area to the law of product liability, which of course covers pipelines and related equipment. Under the Third Restatement of Torts, Section 2 (a) (1998), it is not sufficient for the plaintiff to challenge the design of a particular product, without advancing some alternative feasible design safer than the one the defendant adopted. The discipline imposed by this exercise forces the plaintiff to do more than complain. Indeed, if feasible suggestions were made before or during the course of construction, the BBP has every incentive to adopt them. After all, the first victim of any pipeline breakdown is the BBP itself. The loss of even small quantities of oil can put the pipeline out of commission until the necessary repairs are made. It can trigger extensive liabilities of any harms that are caused. And it can spark more stringent regulatory oversight. But the complaint here fails to show any fundamental weaknesses in the plan to put this pipeline into place, precisely because it addresses none of the elaborate safety features built into the design and execution of the project. Nor does the complaint point to any serious adverse incident that has happened in the construction to date. Judge Dick’s decision. Judge Dick’s decision is divided into two halves. The first portion of the opinion is a merciless dissection of the many errors that the complaint makes in dealing with the fundamental issues of the case. Thus her most vital findings dealt with both alternative siting and spill risks. On the former, of these she concluded that “the Corps compared alternative routes to the preferred route, including with respect to the risks of an oil spill,” concluded that these alternatives were wanting. Indeed, how could it have been otherwise, given that following existing pipelines does far less damage to valuable wetlands while saving costs on construction. Next, Judge Dick determined that “the Corps gave extensive and appropriate consideration to the risk of oil spills along the entire route of the pipeline, which includes the Basin.” She backed up this conclusion by referring to precautions nowhere acknowledged in the actual complaint. The two most salient points were these: first its spill model “assumes a ‘guillotine cut’ to an above-ground pipeline that evacuates all of the oil in a particular segment of the pipeline. The Section 408 EA (under the RHA) explains that this model is conservative in that it greatly overstates the potential volume and impacts of a spill.” Second, “the Corps reviewed a model that examined oil spill risks every 200 feet for the length of the 162-mile pipeline.” Once these two findings have been made, everything else is of secondary importance, given the low probability that anything will go wrong with either the construction or operation of BBP. Nonetheless on the mitigation and cumulative impact issue, Judge Dick goes badly astray. More concretely, there are two possible modes of mitigation: one is for the direct damage caused by constructing the pipeline. It is perfectly clear that there is no further way to mitigate the direct damage from construction given the exhaustive steps already taken to reduce the project footprint so that it involves a temporary loss of about 21 acres of wetland subject to partial rehabilitation, according to the Corps’ assessment. Notably, the Corps concluded that, following remediation efforts, the BBP would result in no net loss of wetlands. In dealing with this issue Judge Dick writes that “the plaintiffs have established a threat of irreparable harm”, because “the impact of the loss of legacy trees cannot be mitigated against or restored to the same condition.” The statement here distorts the irreparable injury test beyond recognition. It is always the case that the removal of even one old-growth tree cannot be renewed by planting a new tree today that takes over a hundred years to mature. But it is a grievous error to think that the damage of a tiny fraction of the total stock of old-growth causes irreparable harm to any wetland taken as a whole. Indeed, by that impossible standard, no one could ever again build a pipeline through wetlands. Surely the “procedural” NEPA statute that rests on an arbitrary and capricious standard does not dictate that extreme and bizarre result. It is well nigh incomprehensible to read the term “mitigation”—typically defined as “the action of reducing the severity, seriousness, or painfulness of something”— to require a perfect substitution that everyone knows is impossible to achieve. BBP seeks to meet this standard in a sensible fashion. Indeed, as Judge Dick acknowledges, “The applicant proposes to offset unavoidable wetland impacts by purchasing credits from Corps-approved mitigation banks within the New Orleans District.” Clearly this form of mitigation should suffice, even if other forms of mitigation were possible. After all, why set up approved banks if their use can be routinely attacked as insufficient? Indeed, any dispute over the size of the mitigation in question could be resolved easily while the construction on the BBP continues. It takes no elaborate EIS to show that the enormous gains in safety and efficiency justify those small losses even if nothing else is done. After all, the far higher risk of spillage from existing operation imperils potentially more space. It hardly seems to be arbitrary and capricious to make this offsetting transaction away from the site of construction. Indeed in many cases in which local governments impose conditions on private construction, they often insist the individual property owners to make improvements away from the site of their project as a condition of granting approval. Nonetheless, Judge Dick goes through an elaborate discussion to demonstrate that even though the applicable regulations list off-site mitigation first, the regulation is not strictly hierarchical. It is therefore, she concludes, possible that some combination of other measures down on the list could do a better job of mitigation. She thus faults the Corps for “offering precious little analysis of what ‘best’ practice’ will offset temporary impacts.” But at no point does she ever indicate with respect to those few disputed acres just how many acres will be affected by the moving from the Corps proposed mitigation scheme of allowing purchases from the government banks to some supposedly ideal one. Given BBP’s efforts to narrow the footprint, it is doubtful that any error on mitigation—at a guess, since Judge Dick supplies no information— could cover even a few acres of land. Environmental mitigation does not require scrapping the entire project, given the huge risk reduction by eliminating riskier forms of shipment. The second possible mitigation target is oil spills. In dealing with pipeline construction generally, Judge Dick noted that “the factors that bear on a spill – pipe corrosion, manufacturing and construction defects, operational errors, equipment failures, etc. – are not unique to the federal projects and easements analyzed” in an EA. The sensible approach therefore is to assume standard practices cover construction. The same applies to mitigation: carry over successful strategies developed on other similar projects. It is easy therefore to fill in any supposed omission by an appeal to background norms. There is no reason to assume that the Corps or BBP will fall down on this job. Judge Dick’s opinion is equally unsatisfactory in its analysis of the so-called cumulative risk from adding BBP into a pipeline rich environment. Judge Dick points out that the EA “provides utterly no analysis of permit conditions or mitigation to address this admitted cumulative effect.” One possible source of difficulty is the creation of so-called “spoil banks”, which can prevent uniform diffuse water flow, which in turn could lead to the deterioration of water quality in the wetlands. Yet the Corps EA makes it clear that the use of these devices would only be “temporary” and that afterwards “the surface would be restored to pre-construction contours.” The proposition responds to the risk of cumulative losses. Once that is done, any remediation of earlier mistakes is best done by the Corps, which Judge Dick feared had fallen down on the job. But if the Corps shows any similar neglect of duty here, Judge Dick can continue her oversight of the case, without incurring the huge costs of time, safety and money from ordering a complete EIS. The question, then, is why then the need for delay in the construction of an entire pipeline when the solution is so close at hand. Judge Dick’s analysis of cumulative effects also fails because she never once addresses the question of whether the cumulative effect from constructing the new pipeline could be favorable, by reducing dependence on rail, trucks and older, inferior pipelines, which should reduce the risk of spillage and other forms of environmental damage. Once again her analysis under NEPA ignores all the risks of maintaining the status quo. To put numbers to the point, the new pipeline could easily reduce current damages by 90 percent. The question is whether those gains should go unrealized because the preoccupation with the second-order question of whether that 90 percent reduction could be 90.1 percent. Judge Dick’s failure to compare the trivial nature of the so-called omissions with the obvious strengths of all the BBP plan represents a profound violation of all sound environmental principles The final element in this case deals with the balance of equities. Under conditions of uncertainty there is always the need to balance off two types of error. The first is blocking an action that turns out to have beneficial consequences. The second is not blocking an act that has positive consequences. In most cases, the greater danger lies in not taking any action at all, which necessarily forecloses all possibility of gain. Taking the other route leaves many more options. Any firm that is allowed to take actions will be subject to damages for any pollution generated by its behavior. It can also be subject to periodic inspections to make sure that the work proceeds in accordance with plans and specifications. It can be required to take out insurance against certain forms of risk, which necessarily subjects its performance to an independent oversight by a company that has every incentive to minimize risk. Finally, the injunctive remedy remains in play in the case of imminent or actual harm, when the balance of equities moves sharply of preventing harm. Unfortunately, Judge Dick lost sight of these venerable principles when she decided to block all work on the BBP in the Basin. Her key passage reads in full: The passage reveals a complete misapprehension of the relative issues at play. As a consequence of her truncated review of the merits of the BBP, she ignores all the environmental benefits that come from completing the work, by reducing the use of high risk rail and truck facilities. She also ignores the dangers of trying to keep a half-completed project in safe condition. Construction schedules are precise, and often tied to the weather. The delays in finishing a half completed process could disrupt seriously the integrity of the overall system, and make it difficult, especially in the rainy season, to complete the operation at some future time. It is therefore wrong to assume that the losses here in question are purely economic when they are not. Nor is it correct for her to describe these as “temporary” economic losses, when the delays in question could stretch out months or years. Completing any EIS requires time and money. Yet once it is finished, the new report awaits another round of judicial review that could take years before allowing the project can go forward, at which point the project may have to be abandoned. Judge Dick’s modest concession that work on the BBP could continue outside the Basin offers scant consolation, for it requires the company to pour money today into a project that may never be put into service tomorrow. Unfortunately, Judge Dick never explores the option of allowing construction to go forward under the well -established test outlined in in Allied-Signal v. U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which was explicitly relied upon the June 14, 2017 decision of District Court Judge James Boasberg in Standing Rock Sioux Tribe v. Army Corps of Engineers, which allowed for the continuing operation of the 1172 mile Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL) while the Army Corps addressed certain alleged deficiencies in the EA prepared by the Corps. "The decision whether to vacate depends on `the seriousness of the order's deficiencies (and thus the extent of doubt whether the agency chose correctly) and the disruptive consequences of an interim change that may itself be changed.'" Why in this case not let construction proceed apace? Modern construction techniques reduce or eliminate the use of such spoil banks for BBP. Any residual concerns over mitigation can be worked out as the construction of the BBP proceeds under, if need be, the continuing supervision of the District Court. Similarly, Judge Dick can address any concern with the spoil banks during construction, by supervising, if necessary, Army Corps treatment of any spoil banks created by the BBP program. As noted earlier, the decision of Judge Boasberg not to stop construction on DAPL paid strong dividends. It is estimated that the continued operation of that pipeline allows on a daily basis eliminates the need to use of somewhere between 500-740 rail cars, and over 250 trucks otherwise to ship the same quantities of oil. In addition, DAPL has provided jobs and tax revenues on a large scale. The same could be true here. That situation has been win/win in every relevant dimension notwithstanding the passionate objection to its completion every step of the way. The unfortunate incident of the BBP shows what is wrong with so much of environmental law, especially its decisions under NEPA. NEPA is advertised as a mere procedural statute. But it is far from that. In all too many cases, its relentless application of the “arbitrary and capricious” standard is not used to overturn decisions that were undertaken haphazardly and without purpose. Instead, in too many cases, that standard imposes a “hard look” standard of review that shows scant respect for the professionalism of the front-line administrative officials. The hard-look doctrine allows a court to look at each issue separately, and to condemn the entire proceeding if anyone of a myriad of points is found defective on searching analysis. Few administrative decisions can survive that test, given the thousands of close calls on matters of fact, just as juries are given leeway in resolving questions of fact in medical malpractice, product liability and patent disputes. But once invoked, the hard look doctrine paves the way for the most potent form of relief known to the law—the injunction—in any case in which the information collected is deemed to be not complete. But at the same time, NEPA proceedings consciously disregard the collateral benefits to the environment that come from replacing older and more dangerous facilities with newer and safer ones. Judge Dick commits this great fallacy when she assumes that the serious risks come from the completion of new facilities, when oftentimes, they coming from holding on to riskier technologies and outmoded ways of doing business. Environmental issues are always vital, which makes it all the more imperative to approach them in a systematic and rigorous matter that was sadly missing in Judge Dick’s decision to enjoin completion of the BBP. In the latest development in the case, Judge Dick has refused to stay her own preliminary injunction on the ground that she still thinks that the plaintiff’s case has a high probability of success. But in so doing she revealed the indefensible ground on which her decision rests. The Court has already weighed the potential harm to BBP and found that the public interest and threat of harm to the environment outweighed the purported economic harm to BBP. The Court maintains its finding that such a considerable project - that will have permanent damaging environmental impacts to the Atchafalaya Basin - should at least be halted until this matter can be tried on the merits. Her statement has this matter exactly backwards. The economic harm to BBP and the many firms (including members of the GAIN Coalition) is undisputed. How could the prolonged cessation of work not produce major business dislocations? Nonetheless Judge Dick refused to take any evidence on their extent. On the other hand, her own opinion confirms that the only actual losses were to the few old-growth cypress trees in the path of the development, which is a far cry from the false assert that project will have “permanent damaging environmental impacts” the Atchafalaya Basin. There is no need for another extensive review of this sprawling record to document what is already known—namely, the limited scope of the inevitable losses from new pipeline construction. By Judge Dick’s decision, the EIS is turned into a war club that makes it impossible for any developer to complete work on a sensible schedule given pointless procedural delays that are imposed to affirm the answer that is already crystal on the available record. Does Judge Dick really think that a permanent injunction against the completion of BBP could be issued on such a flimsy record? The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit has agreed to hear the case on an expedited basis on March 13, 2018, with briefing to be finished as of April 16, 2018. It would be an unjustified victory for the plaintiffs to allow Judge Dick’s preliminary injunction to stand a second longer than necessary. That Fifth Circuit should reverse the order from the bench at the close of argument on March 13, 2018, for it is highly unlikely that the briefs that will arrive a month late will do anything to alter the lopsided balance of equities that drove Judge Dick’s highly flawed and legally indefensible decision. 