Recently, I have been hearing rumors from the Gulf that Saudi Aramco is now unlikely to list on an international exchange (like the NYSE or LSE), at least for some time after the IPO. Now Reuters is reporting that there is a good chance Aramco will be listed only on the Saudi stock exchange, Tadawul. According to Reuters, the chance that the company will list on an international exchange is only about 50%. Tadawul is a relatively small exchange, with about $475 billion of value listed. Aramco is probably the most valuable company in the world and could possibly be valued at up to $2 trillion. The combination of a very large company on a small exchange is extremely risky . It could be disastrous for both the Saudi economy and Saudi Arabia’s national oil company. If the company is listed only on Tadawul, and five percent is listed as per usual practice and the stated desire of the state, then the company may have a very difficult time achieving anything near the $2 trillion valuation that the crown prince originally estimated. There may not be enough money willing to invest on that exchange to raise a full $100 billion. Investment bankers will know this in advance, and it could very well make them fearful of such a high valuation. In any case, if Aramco were to list five percent on Tadawul and achieve a $2 trillion valuation through a combination of foreign investment and Saudi exuberance, Aramco would become a dangerously large part of the exchange. At 5% of $2 trillion, Aramco would have $100 billion worth of shares trading on Tadawul. Compared to the current value of Tadawul, that would make a future Aramco listing about 17% of the entire exchange. That is too much. Aramco is an oil company, and as the price of oil tends to fluctuate, so do the values of oil companies every few years. For instance, from the summer of 2014 to the summer of 2015, the share price for ExxonMobil XOM +0% However, a big drop in Aramco stock would cause the Tadawul index to plummet, which could very likely incite a run on the exchange in Saudi Arabia. People might rush to cash out of their investments. Simply put, an Aramco listing on Tadawul is not sustainable unless it is shrunk. It is possible that less than five percent of Aramco would be listed on Tadawul, but even then, the prospect is risky. If Saudi Arabia lists three percent of Aramco, at a $2 trillion valuation, Aramco's traded shares would still be more than 10 percent of the value of Tadawul (based on its current value). Listing one percent, Aramco would constitute four percent of Tadawul. Moreover, at some point after an IPO the state may decide to sell more shares, as it has said it might, and that would only add to the value of Saudi stock circulating on Tadawul. The Dow Jones Industrial Index regularly moves up and down based on the movement of just a few companies, but the U.S. economy is diverse, mature, and has proven its resilience. Right now, Saudi Arabia is hoping and planning to diversify its economy and become less dependent on oil but listing too much of Aramco on the domestic exchange could have the opposite effect. 