As the liquefied natural gas trade continues to grow and importers gleefully note incremental volumes of U.S. cargoes in a market that saw nearly 300 million tons change hands in 2017, the relatively new American exporters at the center of it all are invariably bringing profound changes along with them in a variety of ways. Merely five years ago, importers Japan, South Korea and China collectively made up two-thirds of global LNG demand, and exporters Qatar, Australia and Malaysia collectively met around two-thirds of global demand. In the main, the importers mix hasn’t altered much, except that China has overtaken South Korea as the world’s second-largest LNG importer, and will in all likelihood overtake Japan as well in the not too distant future, according to Royal Dutch Shell. But the exporters' club has been rocked by the abundance of U.S. natural gas, and the next wave of American LNG exporters are rocking the market. For starters, an impact on supply contracts in Asia and Europe is already being felt, according to much of the discourse at IHS CERA Week 2018; one of the industry's premier jamborees in Houston, Texas, U.S. S&P Global Platts Analytics says 75% of the world’s LNG demand growth to 2040 will come from Asia (see chart above), against only 30% of supply growth in the energy-hungry continent over a comparable period. Given this backdrop, the rise of U.S. LNG exports cannot be understated, says Anne K.T. Hung, Energy and Mining Partner at global law firm Baker McKenzie's Tokyo office. "For instance, Japanese buyers and sellers' behavior has already adjusted to incremental U.S. cargoes to Asia. "Contracts are getting shorter, there is more flexibility and more importantly counterparty risk is nothing like it was a decade ago. These days counterparties include the American exporters in one basket, oil and gas majors in another, and finally the pool of global traders. With so much choice, counterparty risk has inevitably come down." Domestic legislative changes have followed. "Destination restriction clauses have been removed by Japan's Fair Trade Commission (FTC), so those buyers with excess commitments tied to old long term contracts can move the cargo. And all of it is not because the Japanese would only buy from the Americans, but because other exporters know there’s a new player in town." Most analysts logically assume Asia would be the main LNG market for U.S. exports, but Laurent Ruseckas, Senior Advisor, Eurasian Gas at IHS Markit, says Europe - the "backstop market for LNG" - is also feeling whiffs of the U.S. 'shale gale.' "We believe there will be a period of LNG oversupply and there will be volumes, from the U.S. and elsewhere, that have nowhere else to go. In which case, Europe would be the natural market to consider. Short-run marginal cost of U.S. LNG in an oversupplied market will provide a floor to European prices." That’ll potentially put these cargoes into competition with Russian pipelined gas. Ruseckas adds: "It’s a strategic challenge that Russian natural gas behemoth Gazprom is well aware of. We’ve already seen Gazprom pretty much ditch its past strategy of defending its price by keeping gas off the market. These days its willing to keep lower prices and not sacrifice market share." And anyone thinking U.S. LNG exports are a fad should think again, says Regina Mayor, Global Energy and Natural Resources Leader at KPMG. "There is no shortage of natural gas stateside. Domestic U.S. prices are already at incredible lows and have been reasonably stable at that low mark for a number of years. There are margin opportunities, particularly in Asia, and in the event of a glut, I see American cargoes heading East at very competitive prices." Mayor also chooses not to call natural gas a bridging fuel for emerging market utilities in the face of renewable energy options. "My view is that in 50 to 60 years we will have a plethora of energy production options that all have lower carbon emission footprints, and we cannot get there on the back of solar and wind alone. There is a long term viable future for LNG. The onus is on all producers to stay competitive, whether we are talking about U.S. exporters, their rivals, or even small scale LNG." Of course, there has been plenty of table thumping at CERA Week. Secretary of Energy Rick Perry declared the U.S. to be an "ally" of countries seeking energy security reminding people in a speech that the country is now a net energy exporter currently sending its cargo to 27 nations and counting, on 5 continents. India became the latest country to take its first consignment of U.S. LNG on Monday (5 March). There has been gentle, light-hearted goading of OPEC officials about America's new found energy resource richness. Sabine Pass LNG has been anointed the poster project among export terminals, with several more on the way, but as Mayor asks - can these projects stay competitive in a low price environment? Optimization and technology specialists say they will. Greg Scheu, Americas President of global automation and industrial solutions giant ABB, is one of them. His company is busy helping the next wave of U.S. LNG projects to automate and electrify. Rio Grande LNG export terminal; a 27 million ton per year export facility in South Texas, is one such project it’s involved with. Scheu says ABB is helping its NASDAQ-listed project sponsor NextDecade achieve a "low cost, lower risk" development strategy. More Australian LNG supply is already creating bearish price pressures in the Asian market that all exporters look to. What's more, weaker Henry Hub/Permian price outlook supports persistently higher U.S. LNG exports and new project economics. "In such a setting, our goal is to deliver a step change in operating efficiencies and improved throughput for NextDecade. Our integrated automation and electrical solution, best-practice benchmarking and transparency into operations will transform the growing LNG market in the U.S. for NextDecade and others," Scheu says. So the verdict? From analysts to lawyers, financial advisers to automation experts – most believe U.S. LNG industry is here to stay, and is changing much of the market with it.