I’m adding a little twist to my Derby of Economic Forecasting Talent (DEFT) this year. Most contestants will try to predict the economy. Forbes readers are also invited to predict the year-end level of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The winner of the Dow Prophecy contest will get a gift certificate to the restaurant of their choice, in an amount equal to 0.5% of the Dow on December 31, 2018. At this writing, with the Dow at 24,874, that would be about $124. The winner of the DEFT contest gets a trophy. A wag once said there are three rules in forecasting. (1) If you give a date, don’t give a number. (2) If you give a number, don’t’ give a date. (3) Try not to look surprised if you are right. There is a lot of truth in that joke. Even genuine experts rarely succeed in forecasting the future. But why not give it a try? The Derby In the Derby of Economic Forecasting, now entering its 16th year, the goal is to accurately predict the year-end level of U.S. gross domestic product (GDP), inflation, the interest rate on a 10-year Treasury note, the price of oil, retail sales and the unemployment rate. I got the idea for this enterprise from the “Crystal Owl” competition run annually for many years by U.S. Steel. I won that contest once. Steve Forbes, editor-in-chief of FORBES magazine, won a record four times. Most years, most contestants miss something by a mile. This year it was interest rates. When 2016 ended, the rate on a 10-year Treasury note was 2.45%. Forty-four of the 45 contestants expected that rate to rise. One guessed it would be unchanged. Confounding everyone’s expectations (including my own) the rate actually fell to 2.40% at the end of 2017. The long-anticipated rise in rates does seem to be happening in 2018: The rate has risen to 2.80% as of early March. The price of oil also surprised a lot of people. A barrel of crude cost $60.46 at the end of 2017. Thirty-seven out of 45 contestants thought it would be lower. Dominico’s Win Janice Dominico, a retired public-school administrator from Ruffsdale, Pennsylvania, took first place in the last Derby. She helped her score with a near-pinpoint prediction on retail sales for December 2017. (She guessed $501.75 billion; the actual figure was $502.22 billion.) Dominico was surprised when I phoned her Sunday to tell her she had won. She “totally forgot” that she had entered the contest, she said. Clearly, no one had told her about forecasting rule number three. A year ago, she anticipated that “people will be spending more” as businesses expanded and wages rose. But for 2018 her outlook is more cautious. She fears that new tariffs just imposed by the Trump administration on steel and aluminum will trigger a “ripple effect” of retaliation from other countries. Jeffs Rides Again Randy Jeffs, founder of Progressive Capital Managers in Irvine, California, has won honors in all three contests I run--stock picking, short selling, and economic forecasting. In this competition, Jeffs has finished first twice. This time, he finished only a whisker behind Dominico. For this year, Jeffs anticipates rising inflation and interest rates, but feels that the economy will be strong, or at least “reasonable.” He thinks oil prices won’t rise much for the next five years, as any price increases will spur more production from shale-oil drilling. Third place went to Carol Fenton, a retired township auditor from Ligonier, Pennsylvania. She believes the country may start to achieve a bit more unity; and she thinks the economy will continue to show “a little” improvement. Try Your Luck If you’d like to try your luck in the Dow Prophecy contest, simply send me an e-mail giving your guess and the reasoning behind it. Be sure to include your name, address, phone number (important in case I need to interview you) and e-mail address. If you want to enter the Derby of Economic Forecasting, send the same personal information along with answers to the six questions below. You are not required to give the reasons behind your estimates, but I appreciate it if you do. All entries must be postmarked or time-stamped by midnight March 31, 2018. Send them to jdorfman@dorfmanvalue.com or John Dorfman, Dorfman Value Investments, 379 Elliot Street, Newton Upper Falls MA 02464. ---- John Dorfman is chairman of Dorfman Value Investments LLC in Newton Upper Falls, Massachusetts, and a syndicated columnist. His firm or clients may own or trade securities discussed in this column. He can be reached at jdorfman@dorfmanvalue.com. 