After a powerful rally that started in December 2017 and lasted through late January, the Alerian MLP Index has given up these gains and finds itself within spitting distance of last year’s lows, despite resilient oil prices and surging US hydrocarbon output. Some commentators attribute the selloff to rising interest rates, a trend that erodes the future value of distributions (particularly those that remain flat). Higher interest rates would also pose challenges for heavily leveraged names that run tight distribution coverage and face a murderer’s row of debt maturities in coming years. Many master limited partnerships (MLP) have taken their medicine and slashed their distributions to shore up their balance sheets, pay down debt and fund more of their capital expenditures internally; however, some prominent publicly traded partnerships have only taken half-steps toward sustainability and continue to issue equity at yields that, frankly, only someone planning to cut the distribution could love. Governance issues and misaligned incentives also remain a cause for concern, a point underscored by the market’s focus on the challenges that burdensome incentive distribution rights (IDR) can create as an MLP matures. In an environment where an influx of private-equity money has intensified completion for new projects, this lodestone becomes an even bigger impediment. And although ONEOK’s roll-up of ONEOK Midstream Partners LP last year worked out well for investors in both entities, unitholders all too often end up feeling the most pain, particularly in distressed situations. Recall the inflated multiple that Plains All-American Pipeline LP paid to eliminate its IDRs before announcing a second payout cut. Tax complications and the uncertainty surrounding future simplification transactions, coupled with concerns about contract expirations and governance issues, may keep generalist funds and badly burned retail investors on the sidelines. Meanwhile, the universe of primarily MLP- and energy-focused funds that help to provide liquidity for the group continue to contend with weak flows, if not outflows, and redemptions, creating a lack of depth in the market. Check out this graph tracking net flows for the mutual funds that focus on the MLP asset class. The Alerian MLP Index ETF, an exchange-traded fund with a market capitalization of $9.14 billion that tracks a popular basket of 40 prominent MLPs, has likewise suffered steep outflows since the start of February. Against this backdrop, high-quality MLPs have struggled to gain traction. Enterprise Products Partners LP, for example, delivered a blow-out fourth quarter and continued to add to its backlog of growth projects on the Gulf Coast. Management reiterated that the blue-chip MLP aims to self-fund the equity portion of its growth capital expenditures next year, and we see more upside to cash flow as new Gulf Coast petrochemical capacity ramps up in 2018. Despite these impressive results and encouraging guidance, Enterprise Products Partners' unit price barely budged. Given the lack of depth in the market, Enterprise Products Partners’ heavy weighting in the Alerian MLP Index and the fact that most MLP investors already have exposure to the name, this blue-chip stock effectively tracks the benchmark. Over the past two years, the partnership has exhibited an r-squared coefficient of 0.833 relative to the Alerian MLP Index, indicating a high degree of correlation. Accordingly, the stock appears more likely to benefit from inflows to the Alerian MLP Index and other MLP funds than fundamental developments, assuming that the status quo remains in place and the business continues to hum along. The MLP market’s lack of depth also means that large initial public offerings, such as BP Midstream Partners LP’s debut in October 2017, can send the Alerian MLP Index lower as funds pare existing positions to make room. Meanwhile, MLPs that issue equity on the public market experience harsher selloffs than in the past, especially for names that do so serially. For example, Shell Midstream Partners LP, which generates the bulk of its cash flow growth via asset drop-downs from Royal Dutch Shell, gave up almost 10 percent of its value after the MLP announced a $680 million equity offering on Feb. 1. Although the deal was well-timed in that it came out before the selloff in US equities, this transaction underscores the risk inherent in holding this and other drop-down names: Shell Midstream Partners has no qualms about issuing units to fund asset deals as long as its stock trades at a premium to the deal multiple. Investors shouldn’t dismiss MLPs that offer exposure to key growth stories and boast strong balance sheets and solid distribution coverage; these names remain best-positioned to benefit as US shale plays take market share in coming years. That said, a glance at the top- and bottom-performing MLPs this year reveals a lot about how to generate differentiated returns in a thin market. Many of the top-performing MLPs—excluding the upstream names—hail from niche, cyclical industries that offer leverage to accelerating drilling and completion activity. Providers of contract compression services for wells and pipelines have emerged as some of this year’s big winners, while proppant provider Hi-Crush Partners LP and water-disposal outfit Cypress Energy Partners LP have also fared well. CNX Midstream Partners LP —formerly Cone Midstream Partners LP when it was a joint venture between Noble Energy and CNX Resources —and Crestwood Equity Partners LP top the charts among midstream operators and stand out as under-owned turnaround stories. What do all of this year’s top performers share in common? These names generally trade at cheap valuations, operate cyclical businesses and have a minimal presence in the Alerian MLP Index. As for this year’s laggards, NuStar Energy LP and NuStar GP Holdings LP not surprisingly have the ignominy of finishing at the bottom of the charts after a massive distribution cut and a disorganized conference call that did little to inspire confidence in the management team and its decision-making. Drop-down MLPs have also fared poorly in this thin market, with Shell Midstream Partners and Dominion Energy Midstream Partners LP (NYSE: DM) giving up about 15 percent of their value. How can these names help themselves in the current environment? Their sponsors should demonstrate their support by lowering deal multiples and taking additional common units to limit the MLPs’ need to tap the public equity market. Whether that happens remains to be seen.