Improving gender diversity and attracting millennials to science and engineering career pathways are business imperatives for the oil and gas sector, according to Dame Angela Strank, energy giant BP’s Chief Scientist and Head of Downstream Technology. As "Big Oil" continues its own introspection at a time of relatively stable oil prices, a key theme at IHS CERA Week, in Houston, U.S., Strank, recently made a Dame – the feminine form of address for the British honor of a knighthood – for her services to the oil industry and women in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math [STEM], says industry stakeholders have to engage female and young recruits at every level with inclusiveness having improved exponentially over the last few decades. "If the industry continues to work on the ‘I’ bit, the ‘D’ bit usually follows. I feel ‘inclusiveness’ furthers ‘diversity.’ We need to pitch STEM career opportunities to a diverse pool of recruits much more aggressively, and catch them young to build interest and fascination." Strank says the oil and gas industry is nothing like it was when she started out on her professional journey. "The glass ceiling effect was glaringly visible when I first harbored aspirations of becoming a scientist growing up in 1960s England, inspired by my father who was an engineer and an architect. When I was studying for my graduate degree in geology in the 1970s, I was the only woman in a class of 40. "When applying for my first job in 1973, I received rejection letters from prospective employers saying they would not offer me employment because the job was better suited for a man. The odd embarrassed human resource officer or two even expressed regret in writing that the chauvinists had prevailed in scuppering my job application. This is unthinkable in 2018." In order to distinguish herself, Strank had to approach her ambitions differently. "So I did a PhD in Micropaleontology, which is the study of tiny fossils caught up in the drill cuttings. When they come to the surface, the paleontologists date the fossils, and tell the driller where they are in the rock succession so that they can drill the well safely and make sure they test the reservoirs correctly." It was a job that she could do from an onshore lab. "Rigs were maritime vessels and back in the day women were not allowed to go to sea by law. Will power, hard work and a love for science ensured my entry into the oil industry via BP." Of course, women are now employed across all energy functions but developing a specialism still matters. The head of downstream technology whose division was credited by BP CEO Bob Dudley at CERA Week, as one that "funds the billions of dollars the company pays its shareholders in dividends" – says industry aspirants would should take heed. "When you have a specialism – and it’s much sought after – it enriches your career. Without doing that PhD, I would have found it difficult to get a job in the energy industry." The rest is BP’s corporate history for its first Dame, who has represented the company around the world for nearly four decades. While individual aspirations matter, Strank says the onus is also on the industry to reconcile the ambitions of future recruits with what she calls a "fantastic career pathway." "We have to get better at communicating who we are, what we do and the opportunities we offer. It couldn’t be a more exciting time to join the industry as a scientist or an engineer. They are among the best remunerated jobs both in the U.S. and the U.K., and I suspect a number of other job markets. "I can honestly say BP does not have any trouble recruiting the very best graduates from the very best schools around the world. People are excited to work in the sector because of the opportunities it is presenting around the new energy mix and advanced mobility. The concern for the industry in general is to ensure that the pipeline of interested recruits continues to flow." To this effect BP is being pretty ambitious. "Our schools link sees senior executives go out to many schools to talk to kids about careers in science, and encourage science projects by secondary school children in the UK. We have a drive to enthuse science teachers to get kids excited about science." From partnerships with London's Kings College to corporate apprenticeships, global scholarships to endorsements of scientific establishments, every possibility is being explored by the company. As for gender diversity, Strank says CEO Dudley and the company’s board remain cognizant of the value of a gender diverse business. "We have a target of placing women in 30% of our group leadership posts by 2020. That’s the top 300 executives of the company. It’s at 25% at the moment, and when I joined the company in 1982 it was zero! This demonstrates how far we have come as a FTSE 100 company. Similar targets to redress the gender balance exist at senior leadership levels as well as regional middle tiers. At graduate level, we recruit at a 50:50 ratio." And the BP executive is keen to stress it is not window dressing. "We have females in all of our succession plans. Gender diversity is a corporate aspiration, alongside aiming for a $30 per barrel oil price break-even, enhancing our downstream portfolio, incremental investment in research and development, and our march to a low carbon future." Strank also disagrees that having diversity targets are unfair or unhelpful. "People offer a counter argument that such measures lead to the elevation of women who are not ready for that role. I don’t buy that. I think it’s all about having a good pipeline for talented women to come through and to keep that pipeline flowing. It’s all about keeping them in the system through the middle part of their careers to get them ready for bigger roles. It is not some rigid enforcement of a percentage." "I think you need to have some kind of a target. Even if it’s not a hard target, even if its aspirational; it’s a good thing. That’s because all oil and gas companies are competitive. So if we set ourselves a goal, we like to hit it to prove a point to the competition, and to ourselves. And more so, when its apparent that diversity and aggressively promoting STEM pathways make good business sense." 