By Kerry A. Dolan and Christopher Helman It's hard to imagine a faster or more audacious way to obtain billions of dollars than the route recently taken by Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman: force the country's richest people to turn over their personal fortunes to the state as part of an "anticorruption campaign." Late last year the 32-year-old heir to the throne locked up a group of Saudi billionaires and other businessmen at an ultra-luxe prison--the 492-room, palm-lined Ritz-Carlton Riyadh. Some were his own relatives, including Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal, 62, the most recognizable Saudi mogul in the West. At least 3 other Saudi billionaires from Forbes’ 2017 list were reportedly detained. No official list of the detainees’ names was released; the press attaché at the Saudi Embassy in Washington D.C. told Forbes that it didn’t have information on specific individuals due to Saudi privacy laws.    Also on Forbes: Alwaleed and many others have been released, but checking out of the Ritz-Carlton cost billions. (Sources also told Forbes that Alwaleed is now banned from granting media interviews. Update March 23, 2018: Alwaleed did give an interview to Bloomberg in late March, right as Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman arrived for a visit to the U.S. Alwaleed has only praise for the crown prince in the interview, which reads as if it was heavily stage managed. Alwaleed does not disclose any details of his settlement.) The Saudi government’s reported goal was to gather $100 billion to plug a hole in the budget that’s been growing amid years of low oil prices. There are a thousand and one stories about what precisely happened, making it impossible to know definitively who gave how much to whom when. Forbes learned that at least one tycoon who was not detained handed over assets to the government. Given these shifting sands of truth, we've chosen to leave all ten Saudis off our billionaires list this year; none would comment. With greater clarity regarding their wealth, some might eventually return to the ranking. Here are the Saudis Forbes removed from this year's list, with last year's net worth: Prince Alwaleed bin Talal  $18.7 billion Chairs publicly traded Kingdom Holding, which has investments in Lyft, Twitter, Citigroup and the Four Seasons. Mohammed Al Amoudi $8.1 billion Assets include a Swedish refinery, Saudi gas stations and an Ethiopian conglomerate (gold mining, farming, construction). Prince Sultan bin Mohammed bin Saud Al Kabeer $3.8 billion His publicly traded Almarai dairy company is among the largest in the Middle East.   Mohammed Al Issa $2.6 billion His Assila Investments has stakes in a bank, a food processor and hotels. Saleh Kamel $2.3 billion Founded Dallah Albaraka conglomerate (real estate, food, health care). Abdullah Al Rajhi $1.9 billion With brothers, built Al Rajhi Bank, one of world's largest Islamic banks. Abdul Majeed Alhokair $1.2 billion Salman Alhokair $1.2 billion Fawaz Alhokair $1.2 billion The three brothers' real estate empire includes 19 shopping malls. Mohammed Serafi $1.1 billion Real estate investor. 