U.S. oil producers will dominate the crude market for next five years, with a potential to export up to 5 million barrels per day (bpd) globally by 2023, according to fresh industry projections. In its latest annual outlook published on Monday (5 March), the International Energy Agency said that better prospects for economic growth around the world would fuel strong demand for oil until at least 2023. And it projects that the U.S. will pump 17 million bpd of crude oil, condensates and natural gas liquids, up from 13.2 million bpd in 2017, making it the world’s top producer. By contrast, OPEC will increase its capacity by just 750,000 bpd through 2023. Alongside rising output from the U.S., other non-OPEC producers such as Canada, Brazil and Norway would also play their part in catering to rising demand, the think-tank added. However, IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol warned that oil supply could "become tight" unless investment in new production rebounds from historic declines in recent years. Speaking at IHS CERA Week in Houston, U.S., Birol said: "Upstream investment shows little sign of recovering from its plunge in 2015-2016, which raises concerns about whether adequate supply will be available to offset natural field declines and meet robust demand growth after 2020." According to the IEA, investment in the oil and gas sector fell by 25% in both 2015 and 2016, and was flat last year, in the wake of the historic slump in oil prices since July 2014, with Brent plummeting from $112 per barrel to as low as $30 last year, before a recovery driven by OPEC and non-OPEC production cuts took hold. Birol told CERA Week that conditions have "changed substantially" since then, as the resurgence of U.S. production has fast become the dominant theme in the global oil markets, with the country’s output underpinned by several major shale fields, the "significance" of which cannot be understated. From a global perspective, the IEA sees oil production capacity rising by 6.4 million bpd to reach 107 million bpd. The U.S. will account for 60% of that global increase, Birol concluded. The IEA also said there is "no peak oil demand in sight", but that demand growth will start slowing down to about 1 million bpd by 2023. Demand headwinds include rising fuel efficiencies in G7 economies, proliferation of electric buses and natural-gas fueled trucks in China, and the rise of battery-powered electric cars. On the other hand, the IEA said demand support will come from the petrochemicals industry, which it said will account for a "quarter of oil demand growth" to 2023.