One problem with President Trump's announced tariffs on steel and aluminum imports is the tremendous energy drain and distraction it has been since it was announced last week. A second is the collateral damage. Once this issue fades from the headlines in the coming days -- seriously, how long can a discussion of steel and aluminum tariffs entrall, after all? -- what will not be a problem is any real impact on U.S. consumers. And, most unfortunately, this will have little to no impact on the nation primarily responsible for low prices on global markets, China. That's because the United States imports little of its steel from China.    A quick look at each of those four points. First, the distraction. Simply put, we have larger issues. China's autocratic and expansive leader Xi Jinping is undoing laws that prevent him from serving as "president for life." The nation yearns for action on gun violence. The nation agrees investing in our infrastructure would pay enorous benefits down the road. Syria remains intractable, Assad's government using chemical weapons on his own people. In our own hemisphere, Venezuela remains horribly unstable and a growing human rights crisis. North Korea's nuclear ambitions. And let's not forget the investigation into Russian meddling in our politics. More than 100 Republicans in the House signed a letter urging the president to back down. Our interests would be better served if they were working on other, more pressing issues. We're fixated on steel and aluminum tariffs? Really? Forget that the benefits -- lower prices for consumers, jobs for those in industries that rely on steel and aluminum -- are real. The benefits are real in the same way that increased U.S. oil production has kept a lid on oil prices globally. To be certain, that is not making the oil-producing countries of the world happy in much the same way that lower steel prices don't make Trump happy. Second, the collateral damage. First, National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn, who strongly urged President Trump to walk away from the tariffs, announced he will resign. He was widely seen as the strongest counterweight to the administration's anti-trade troika, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and power broker Peter Navarro. The resignation strenghtens their hand, which could have significant implications in future trade issues, including NAFTA negotiations. The other collateral damage is to U.S. allies that, unlike China, do import steel and aluminim into the United States, most notably Canada, Brazil, South Korea and Germany. That damage is real, and doesn't engender the kind of relationships all presidents require. Even if Canada is excluded from the tariffs, as is increasingly expected, this didn't help an already tense relationship. Third, don't expect an enormous impact on prices of cars, homes, washing machines or canned beverages. Steel and aluminum inputs are important but not signifiant in many products. In those where they are -- think automobiles -- domestic manufacturers will compete with imports, which are, ironically, advantaged by higher steel prices in this country. Same for washing machines, recently the subject of the president's attention when he sought to protect Whirlpool against South Korean competitors LG and Samsung. Fourth and finnally, China is largely unaffected by a global tariff because so little of its steel enters the United States, at least not directly. That's the real tragedy of steel and aluminum tariffs, and the tremendous waste of energy expended on the issue.   