Starting this week, the Trump administration says, it will slap tariffs of 25% on imported steel and 10% on imported aluminum. This is a big problem for all Americans because it's a big problem for our booming oil and gas industry, which is now producing at record levels — 10.3 million b/d of crude oil and 78 Bcf/d of gas. In short, the tariff is opposite the administration's own stated goal of "energy dominance" and upgrading our critical infrastructure to the tune of $1.5 trillion. Run the numbers: For example, a company bringing $200,000 of steel made in Canada into the United States would have to pay an extra $50,000 to the government, obviously increasing costs. And it's thus even still a question of how the tariffs would help our own steel industry. It's no wonder that stocks plunged on the tariff announcement.    Steel is an essential component of oil and gas projects, such as drilling, pipelines, and export terminals. Particularly for new pipelines, a significant portion of the steel used is speciality products that get imported because our industry doesn't make them. For example, the type of pipe and steel used to make large diameter, thick-walled pipe are niche products. They are not available "off-the-shelf" and only can come from certain manufacturers. We are the largest steel importer in the world, with imports more than doubling since 2009. About a quarter of steel pipe and tube purchased by companies in the U.S. in 2016 was imported. Full disclosure here and a shout out to a man I never met. I live in Pittsburgh and my entire family is from here. Nobody has more respect for our steel industry than me. My grandfather Julius Lison, who died 10 years before I was born, worked in the mills and was one of the many things about America that Hitler, fortunately, vastly underestimated. I know that Pittsburgh's capacity to pump out mass amounts of steel in a very short amount of time is one of the main reasons why you and I don't speak German. But, I also know that our steel industry peaked in the 1940s, and we live in an increasingly global world, where trade can only be increasingly important. At 92 million tonnes, the U.S. produced just 6% of the world's steel in 2016, compared to nearly half that China produced. Tariffs will up prices for the oil and gas industry (and pretty much all other sectors), which will obviously trickle down to increase prices for everyday Americans. Not only are we continually strengthening our position as the world's largest oil and gas producer, but we have a massive pipeline build-out coming to deliver energy across the country and even to support exporting our surplus around the globe to reduce the influence of more risky OPEC and Russia. There are serious concerns about whether U.S. steelmakers would be able to handle higher volumes and produce all grades of steel necessary for industrial production, explaining why President Trump's campaign promise to ensure that our steel for pipelines will need to be "made in the USA" was pulled back. Such anti-import policies can lead to critical delays and even cancellations for U.S. pipeline projects, holding up hundreds or thousands of miles of new builds. This is very unfortunate: ICF reports that 75% of current pipeline construction expenditures end up in the pockets of American workers and business owners. And as we have seen with New England and New York, anti-pipeline policies are not just bad policy but hamper our own energy development and ultimately can serve to just benefit Russia - despite having politicians obsessed with sanctioning Russia. Additionally, a steel tariff unwisely puts retaliation in play. We are a booming oil and gas powerhouse, with a rapidly booming export business. The tariff could easily have unintended consequences and jeopardize the viability of our export projects for oil and liquefied natural gas (LNG). The last thing we want Mr. President is any sort of trade war with nations that want to buy our oil and gas. It's amazing to think that in just three years the U.S. has gone from exporting almost no crude oil to over 2 million b/d. And we've even been supplying all-important China with oil, which helps lower their incentive to create alliances with OPEC and Russia — thereby enhancing our own national security. And remember that we are set to soar from exporting almost nothing in 2016 to becoming the world's largest LNG exporter over the next 5-7 years. Our opportunities in this market is unlimited: LNG is now a $100 billion business that needs a $200 billion investment by the mid-2020s to meet surging demand. Tariffs are not the way to help our LNG chances: global leader Qatar has massive LNG expansion plans, and so does Russia. And it's critical for our policymakers to realize that these competitors really have endless government backing because their national energy companies function as extensions of state policy. In fact, part of our appeal is our predictability and reliability, it's why countries want to buy our oil and gas. We don't want to jeopardize that confidence and risk losing market share with punitive tariffs. Remember that our largest steel suppliers are also some of the largest LNG importing nations: South Korea, Mexico, China, Turkey, Japan, India, Taiwan, and Brazil all supply a huge portion of our steel. We import about four times more steel than we export and are reliant on steel from more than 110 nations. Unfortunately, the steel tariff is just more of the same bad trade policy thinking that is becoming pervasive. We need better strategic thinking. Along with a stronger, not weaker, NAFTA, we want to create as many avenues as possible for a solidified North America - broadening the oil and gas links with our best friends. A U.S., Canada, and Mexico oil and gas alliance is the ultimate no brainer, Mr. President. 