Many of the world’s energy CEOs and policy makers are meeting this week at the CERAWeek conference in Houston. As always, there was much pomp and public relations, but here are four key points of apparent honesty from major oil CEOs: 1) On U.S. shale oil production… John Hess of Hess HES +0% 2) On the future of global oil markets…. Aramco CEO Amin Nasser warned that investor confidence would only come with the knowledge that oil is allowed to compete on a level playing field. He also said that the global oil and gas industry would need more than $20 trillion in investment in the next 25 years just to meet the expected growth in demand. The head of the International Energy Agency (IEA) also discussed the need for investment when he said that the global oil industry must add the capacity of one oil field in the North Sea each year in order to replace declining oil fields. If these outlooks prove correct, then without major investment in the next few years, we will all see much higher oil and gasoline prices. 3) On electric vehicles… Bob Dudley of BP was not optimistic about the future of electric vehicles. He said that, “EVs are not the silver bullet that everyone is looking for.” This sentiment was shared by other energy CEOs at the conference. It is clear that despite the public relations boost that comes from supporting electric vehicle technology and political bans around the world on future internal combustion engines, most of the big players in energy do not believe that EVs will dominate the market. In fact, there was a great deal more excitement about new hybrid technologies and developing carbon capture technologies for cars and trucks than EVs. 4) On peak oil demand… Royal Dutch Shell CEO Ben van Beurden appears to have changed his tune on peak oil demand. Last year, he said demand would peak as soon as the 2020s. Now, he says that oil demand may not peak until the 2030s or 2040s. This is a significant shift because van Beurden used peak demand forecasts to justify major shifts in Shell’s investment strategy over the past year. Shell has sold off oil assets and invested more heavily in natural gas and solar power. 