This week, as Europeans were just beginning to thaw out from record-setting low temperatures last month, they learned that their welcoming of Spring was premature. A large arctic airmass nicknamed the “Beast from the East” stretched from the Russian Far East to the British Isles in late February and early March, causing record-low temperatures well below freezing in Western Europe. It was the worst winter weather in the UK and Ireland for 30 years. Weather warmed up over the past two weeks, and today it is 14°C (57°F) in Brussels. But on Saturday the Beast will return, plunging Brussels temperatures down to -5°C (23°F). Now there is some doubt about whether Europe will have the gas to keep people warm during this new freeze. Gas markets across Europe are already reeling from the Beast’s earlier visit. Demand soared and prices reached record highs at the end of February. Gas stocks in Northwest Europe are now at a seven-year low. Withdrawal rates are severely constrained by the lack of inventory. The new freeze is expected to last a week, and gas prices have already started to spike in anticipation. UK NBP within-day and day-ahead contracts were trading at 80 p/th (Eur30.73/MWh) early Monday, and contracts for March 19-23, reaching 85 p/th. Dutch and German gas prices also rose. “With LNG and gas storage stocks at record lows in the UK and on the Continent, concerns remain as to where the market will source its gas,” says Simon Wood, European Gas Analysis at analyst S&P Global Platts. “We forecast UK domestic demand in the UK ~260/mcm/d over the coldest period - 18th to 19th March - 100mcm/d below the 360mcm/d peak on 1st March, the peak of the last severe cold spell.” However Wood says he expects the UK to remain balanced without having to call on strong imports or storage withdrawals. “Although, with the outlook so cold across the region, prices may remain elevated to ensure the UK receives continental volume through this period,” he added. This is because warm weather over the past two weeks means temperatures are set to be closer to normal overall in late March, suggesting we could be seeing an over-reaction from the market. The real risk for Northwest Europe, he said, is for next winter. “Sustained cold weather through to the end of March will see storage in the UK and on the continent even lower. All major European hubs have seen a narrowing on Winter-Summer spread, suggesting a lower economic incentive for summer injections. This implies that the deficit to previous years may not be made up through summer injections, leaving the whole region once again exposed next winter.” Reliant on Russia However the concerns for countries like Romania, Hungary, Serbia, Slovakia and Austria is more immediate. A surge in demand during the new cold freeze will have to be met with Russian gas supplies. Domestic production and other import sources -- such as Norway -- are effectively maxed out, Wood says. Some LNG cargoes were offloaded in northwest Europe over the past week to relieve pressure during the previous cold snap and the resulting need to replenish at storage facilities. But it is unlikely a price spike now will provide enough time for LNG pricing to offer an incentive for the diversion of cargoes to the region. This presents a problem because the new cold snap is coming just as a new gas conflict between Russia and Ukraine is flaring up. Russia announced on 3 March that it will cut its gas contracts with Ukraine, after a Swedish court ordered Russia’s state supplier Gazprom to pay Ukraine’s Naftogaz more than 2 billion euros for failing to fulfil contractual obligations. Ukraine has closed schools and universities to conserve gas supplies during the last weeks of winter. In the winter of 2009 a similar gas dispute shut off the tap of Russian gas which proves several EU member states from pipelines that travel through Ukraine. It plunged households in Hungary, Romania, Austria and several other countries into severe cold. Russia’s Energy Minister Alexander Novak has assured Maroš Šefčovič, the EU’s vice-president for energy, that EU gas supplies will not be affected. The EU chose not to activate emergency response mechanisms at the time, despite being asked to do so by Ukraine. Brussels may have felt a lack of urgency because just as the dispute was unfolding, the Beast from the East was retreating from Europe. Temperatures over the past two weeks have been Spring-like. Because this crisis is coming so much later in the winter than in 2009, there was less worry. Now this new cold freeze may put this to the test. For the moment, meteorologists are predicting that this cold freeze will mostly stay in Northern and Central Europe, unlike the previous freeze which extended as far south as Egypt. But should that pattern shift south over the coming days, and European countries start taking Russian gas at an accelerated pace, havoc could ensue.