McDermott International has long been thought of as one of those energy-related engineering and construction companies that just keeps chugging along, benefiting from contracts for large offshore projects in the Middle East (including a recent one from Saudi Aramco), Asia, Mexico and elsewhere. But recently the stock has had some new sparkle. Its shares are up 5.6% so far this year, 11% over the last 12 months, versus down performances by Schlumberger, Halliburton and TechnipFMC over those same periods. There have been several recent developments for the Houston-based company. In December, it agreed to combine with Chicago Bridge & Iron to create a $6 billion vertically integrated onshore and offshore services provider. The deal, which also moves the company into downstream work, is expected to close next quarter. McDermott also has won important new business. This week the company announced that it and Baker Hughes, a GE company (known as BHGE), had been selected for early work on BP's Tortue/Ahmeyim field development off the coast of Senegal and Mauritania in West Africa. McDermott said the eventual contract would be "substantial," which the company defines as being between $500 million and $750 million. McDermott has won other business from BP recently, including a contract for the Cassia C Compression Platform off the coast of Trinidad and Tobago, which builds on its work for BP's Angelin project in the same area. Observers have noted that McDermott partnering with the much larger Baker Hughes will allow it to better compete against the oilfield services giants, which include Schlumberger and TechnipFMC. McDermott is an old company, having been founded by Ralph Thomas McDermott in 1923 (it previously was named J. Ray McDermott after his father). In 2013 it began a turnaround under new CEO David Dickson, a former Technip executive who aimed to reduce costs and focus on its two core areas: shallow water and deepwater. But then, like its competitors, the company was slammed by the collapse in oil prices starting in late 2014 as its customers delayed or shelved new projects, especially expensive ones offshore. Because of its size and its attractive contracts, it's long been thought of as a potential takeover target. It's not inconceivable that it could be picked up as the industry has consolidated considerably over the last few years. Schlumberger bought Cameron in 2016 for $14.3 billion, while last year Technip merged with FMC in a deal valued at $13 billion and Baker Hughes and General Electric combined their oilfield services businesses. Dickson has been resistant to selling the company. As he told the Houston Business Journal in January, "When I came into McDermott and turned it around, I didn’t do it just to put it up for sale and give it to someone else." More recently, joint ventures and strategic alliances, like that between McDermott and BHGE, have become more commonplace in the industry as a way to save on costs and combine expertise. Schlumberger itself announced last month that it had formed such a venture with Subsea 7 to provide customers with better subsea installations and oilfield services. McDermott has inked other joint ventures around the world over the years, including ones with Singapore's Keppel FELS, GE and state-owned China Shipbuilding Industry Corp. Its alliance with Cape 3 Services and Hydra Offshore Group, for example, supports development and growth of Ghana’s offshore oil and gas industry. McDermott could always remain independent or be swallowed up by a larger company. Whichever the case, its prospects are looking better. KeyBanc analyst Tahira Afzal upgraded the company in January to overweight from sector weight with a price target of $14 per share, which is about double where the shares are trading now. Meanwhile, Andrew Kaplowitz, who follows the company at Citi, has the stock at neutral high risk with a target of $10 per share.