The failed state of Venezuela continues to fall apart. By most estimates, it will take at least a decade to recover from the mess created by the ruling Socialists United of Venezuela (PSUV) party, a leftwing, Marxist revolutionary party created by the late Hugo Chavez. Its new leader, Nicolas Maduro, is expected to be out of office within 12 months, predicts Siobhan Morden, a managing director for Nomura Securities in New York. Like many Wall Streeters with an eye on Venezuela, Nomura and its clients have investments in PdVSA bonds. Many distressed asset and global emerging market bond fund managers have been buying the debt of the Venezuelan oil company for years, hoping for a regime change. Instead, they've gotten late payments and headaches. A hard default is still very likely. Morden said Wednesday that she shifted her thesis on regime change to match the consensus view among the participants of the Emerging Markets Trade Association in January. The EMTA members believe there will be a political transition within the next 12 months.    "This has only recently gained traction on the optimism of the election headlines," she says. Snap elections are being held next month. PSUV is expected to walk away the winner, having banned most brand-named opposition leaders from running. "The election cycle offers a convenient venue for a transition but still requires direct military intervention," she thinks. If the sole opposing candidate Henri Falcon withdraws from the race, this would dampen market sentiment but not necessarily decrease the (likelihood) for regime change." Maduro must agree. He is currently purging military members who are not Chavistas or PSUV loyalists. See: The Biggest Migrant Crisis In Americas Is Happening Out Of Venezuela -- Forbes Maduro's resignation would reflect the political realities of insufficient opposition support for Falcon. He has no high profile opposition endorsements yet. Coupled with insufficient military support to allow for a fair election, as if that is a possibility at this point. PSUV basically shut down the opposition, which controls the National Assembly. Last year, Maduro created his band of "yes men" and "yes women" to launch his Constituent Assembly, an end-around the constitutional, Venezuelan lawmakers. For now, the catalyst to motivate military intervention in removing Maduro would be the collapse in PdVSA oil production that compromises the financing of the rank and file and PdVSA employees. To better assess a regime change date, PdVSA bondholders will have to pay attention to the country's increasingly terrible economic data. The cashflow stress at the central bank (which now has under $11 billion to its name) and PdVSA are the leading indicators for a shake-up of leadership.  Recent comments from Conindustria president Juan Pablo Olalquiaga confirm a systemic collapse is coming to an oil-rich country near you. Their latest survey of 2,400 companies out of 3,200 in the private sector show them to be operating at just 24% capacity. Some 44% of them are expecting to go out of business before December 2018. One investor who did not want to be quoted on the record thinks PdVSA bondholders will get "pennies on the dollar. It will be a scalping," the Caracas-based industry analyst said. Many locals do not want to talk on the record. A doctor at one of the biggest private hospitals in Caracas expects the country will remain poor for another generation, with middle income and wealthy Venezuelans leaving in droves. Most won't return unless urban violence abates. Venezuela is likely to remain one of the deadliest countries in the Americas for years to come. PSUV has fomented and helped arm hundreds if not thousands of off-the-reservation hired guns that will lead to further upheaval. As it is now, Caracas is the deadliest city in the Americas. Hugo Chavez has said many times that capitalism is the root of all evil, not only in his country but globally. Capitalism hasn't been part of the Venezuelan government for years. It doesn't have the kind of liquid and tradable stock market like you have in Mexico, Colombia, Brazil, Argentina, and Chile, to name a few. For years, PSUV has sought to create a jungle paradise where indigenous Venezuelans ruled themselves, and bad Europeans and Americans, armed with money and in control of factories, were the colonial villains spreading bad habits of irrational consumerism. It was better to just eat what you grow, walk to work barefoot if you had to, whistling a happy tune as if it is not the 21st century anymore in Venezuela. PSUV slowly and steadily pushed away markets and consumerism. This is what they got in its place—a Cuba, only way worse. Venezuela's problems are not because of oil prices. Oil prices are double where they were two years ago. Even when oil prices were outrageous, Chavez bemoaned Venezuelans buying cars and getting breast implants. It was all too decadent, even then, and Chavez was the equivalent of the pope; the national watchdog over "the cause," in which the cause was adherence to a righteous ideology that no one has ever lived by, except for maybe some tribes hundreds of years ago before there was such a thing as a refrigerator. Venezuela's problems are not because foreigners have abandoned her. They're there when they are allowed. Goldman Sachs was a PdVSA white knight. China and Russia state-owned enterprises and lenders, as well. It's not because of the CIA, Maduro's favorite boogeyman. Washington doesn't control the economic policy-making decisions of PSUV.  The slow burn of Venezuela is all on Chavismo and PSUV. 