Prices in the past few years have been much more stable than in the past, as the figure below shows. It is easy to see why some people think that price volatility has declined, but important to think about why, and what could change that. About a decade ago, a researcher (whose name I don't recall) pointed out that oil prices used to be highly—and negatively—correlated with U.S. private crude inventories, but that since 2004, the relationship had been correlated but positively so. (First figure below.) Needless to say, the idea that higher inventories would raise prices seemed absurd, but it is hard to argue against reality (unless you’re an academic). What was obviously happening is that a third variable was affecting the first two (price and inventories) at the same time, and it was clear that the third factor was perceived political risk relative to market resiliency. Market resiliency stems from a combination of inventory levels and spare capacity, especially at the upstream level. In the 1980s, OPEC had an enormous amount of spare capacity and events like the Iran-Iraq tanker war did not affect oil prices significantly because everyone understood that any supply disruption could be quickly and easily offset somewhere else. (Next figure) After the first Gulf War, the destruction of Kuwaiti oil fields and the embargo against Iraq reduced the amount of spare capacity dramatically, but there were no apparent political threats to supply beyond those two countries for many years. Iran, Libya, Nigeria, Venezuela and other nations that later saw their production affected by unrest, mismanagement or sanctions were largely calm and unaffected. Tight capacity proved important, but in a commercial sense, rather than strategic. In both 1996 and 2000, strong demand meant that parts of the industry, even including the refinery sector, making it less capable of responding to changes in demand. The price moves in those two years, essentially mini-spikes aroused consternation in some quarters, with the Clinton Administration making a minor release of crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in 1996 to calm the market, and pundits warning in 2000 the exorbitant price of, gasp!, $35 would destroy the market for OPEC crude. Little did we know. Since 2003, the market has suffered from both heightened political risk and low spare capacity, particularly in the upstream sector. (U.S. refinery capacity hit 99.9% utilization in August 1998, but has since retreated to more normal levels.) The Figure below shows how global refinery utilization has in recent years been relatively normal, after the elevated levels of mid-1990s. (OECD utilization is the best indicator, since non-OECD capacity is often constrained by technical, not market, conditions.) The close-up of OPEC surplus capacity in the figure below is somewhat misleading, as it includes capacity in cases like Libya where unrest had shut-in capacity, but it was not really available. Still, the recent increase is noteworthy, representing the first time in recent years when OPEC has created surplus capacity by reducing production. (There is another 500 tb/d of surplus capacity in non-OPEC countries who are cooperating with OPEC, which is unusual.) And there is almost always about 2 mb/d of strategic capacity available in Saudi Arabia, though typically of low-quality crude. At the same time, until very recently there was a very substantial inventory overhang (The next figure shows a subset of this, OECD inventories), enough to offset moderate amounts of lost supply. Combined with the 1 mb/d or so of higher surplus crude production capacity, this helped to reassure market participants that even short-term price spikes were unlikely. The fact that there has been no major disruption to supply for several years, and it becomes much more rational for prices to be range-bound or relatively stable. What could change that? Certainly, the decline in inventories removes one leg of the stool, which is necessary but not sufficient to create higher price volatility. And it appears possible that this year, surplus crude capacity will grow, as U.S. shale production crowds out some additional OPEC crude. (Offset by falling Venezuelan production, to a degree.) But given a relatively small amount of surplus crude capacity, and inventories at roughly ‘normal’ levels, it wouldn’t take much political uncertainty to increase the so-called security premium and introduce higher and more volatile prices. Whether we will return to the days when geopolitical concerns drove up prices and inventories simultaneously is not clear, but cannot be ruled out. 