Whenever oil prices surge, some individual investors wonder if oil futures could be a good investment for the year ahead. The answer is no. Look, I don’t fault anybody for asking the question. After all, they don’t call it black gold for nothing. In recent months, the price of a barrel of oil has been soaring — Brent Crude, the international benchmark for a barrel of oil, hit $70 in January, up nearly 50% since June, and was near those levels again in late March. What’s driving prices up? Unrest in Iran, Arctic temperatures in the United States and lower oil production, among other favorable factors. You’d think financial advisors would remind their clients that the best time to buy anything is before it goes up 50% in value, not after. But various experts are now encouraging do-it-yourselfers to load up on oil stocks or risky commodity instruments. U.S. News & World Report tells investors: “These energy stocks will warm your pocket.” InvestorPlace, a site for individual investors, suggests buying oil itself, being more aggressive by buying oil futures — betting on the future price of oil — or even taking the potential lose-your-shirt risk of buying an oil exchange-traded fund that is triple leveraged. That means if oil rises, you could capture three times that gain. But if it falls, your loss would be three times greater than its decline.    It’s easy to see why some of us become enamored: Oil makes for a great story. It’s got the thrill of financial markets, the intrigue of geopolitics and the history of John D. Rockefeller and America’s other oil barons. A chart of the price of a barrel of oil since 1860 reveals a commodity that hit a low of 26 cents a barrel in 1933 and a high of $140 in 2008. Theoretically, anyone who bought barrels of crude in 1933 and stored them until 2008 would have pocketed a 53,746% gain. That sounds impressive until you realize it works out to just an 8.75% annualized return and that stocks have performed a little better on average, if you count dividends. And of course, the theoretical return on a big oil bet excludes the cost of storing all those barrels of crude. And let’s admit it: Even the most committed buy-and-hold evangelists don’t normally recommend burying your investments in your backyard for a century. Anyway, let me explain why I think buying and holding oil is a bit of a fool’s errand. First, let’s look at oil spot prices going back further, to before the Civil War. I pulled together the data for that chart I showed you when I was researching a history of the investment markets that I published last year, Investment Atlas II. (Forbes readers can get a free digital copy. Shoot me an email.) Note the decades-long slide in oil prices that began in the 1870s and persisted for about a century. The fact is, rising oil prices have only been a thing since the 1970s. With natural gas, wind and solar power plants becoming more efficient and electric cars gaining ground all the time, it’s reasonable to build a case for why oil prices could remain soft for a very long while. Second, and more importantly, let me repeat what I said in my book about small investors buying into commodity futures: Futures provide investors a liquid, high-leveraged way to speculate in commodity bull markets (high demand and low supply) or bear markets (low demand and high supply). But high leverage is a two-edged sword! Because the purchaser of a futures contract is required to commit and maintain a cash deposit equal to exchange-imposed margin requirements as low as 10% (stock investments allow a maximum of 50% initial margin), volatile swings in the value of a futures account can occur in both directions quickly. Commodity futures can be very profitable in the hands of disciplined traders who are equally skilled at handling bull and bear markets and are comfortable with the fact that most of their trades will result in a loss. But history has shown that they are not the best choice for investors who like to maintain only long positions with loose stop loss orders. … Because commodities are not designed as long-term investments, it’s difficult to directly compare their long-term performance with stocks, real estate and bonds, which have produced superior “buy and hold” returns. Still, the 21st Century produced record setting bull and bear markets in gold, silver, oil and currencies, where fortunes were made and lost. That, of course, adds to the mystique of oil as an investment vehicle for anyone dreaming of becoming the next Jim Rogers or George Soros. While the world isn’t making oil anymore, the combination of efforts to reduce carbon emissions and the rise of alternative forms of energy seems like a reason to fear another decades-long slump in oil prices. Still, if you’re a do-it-yourselfer who is absolutely sure the price of oil will climb over the next couple years, there are smarter, more practical ways to bet on your hunch. Credit Suisse is advising its clients to look at shares of companies that own oil fields, like Halliburton and Weatherford International. Even if I don’t necessarily agree with that advice, I’d sooner see you buy those stocks than watch you plunge into the futures markets. 