In late February, Judge Shelly Dick issued a preliminary injunction in Atchafalaya Basinkeeper v. United States Army Corps of Engineers temporarily blocking the completion of an extension of the Bayou Bridge Pipeline (BBP), a 24-inch buried pipeline, designed to transport up to 480,000 barrels of various grades of crude oil over about 163 miles from Lake Charles Louisiana to terminal facilities in St. James Louisiana. The total investment related to the completed pipeline is estimated at $750 million. On March 15, 2018 a divided panel of the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit issued a stay against the preliminary injunction on the ground that “the district court abused its discretion in granting a preliminary injunction. Rather than granting a preliminary injunction, the district court should have allowed the case to proceed on the merits and sought additional briefing on the limited deficiencies noted in its opinion.” Given the importance of the issue, it ordered that the pending appeal be “EXPEDITED” to the next available oral argument panel. In an earlier column, I analyzed the legal flaws in Judge Dick’s opinion, and here in my capacity as a legal advisor to Grow America’s Infrastructure Now (GAIN) —a coalition of businesses, trade associations, and labor groups whose own activities are dependent on reliable and cheap sources of energy consistent with the optimal demands for environmental safety – in this column, I review the Fifth Circuit’s decision to stay the preliminary injunction, which is consistent with the mission of GAIN. Judge Dick’s earlier decision was not. To understand Dick’s cryptic ruling, it is critical to note that the district court did not accept any objections raised as to either the siting or construction of the BBP. All of the limited differences concerned the matter of mitigation. That question in turn is divided into two separate parts. The first asks whether there was any possible mitigation for the lost acreage inside the wetlands for constructing the pipeline itself. If the answer is that mitigation is impossible then it amounts to a revolution in the law of permitting as it takes place at the confluence of three statutes. The Clean Water Act and the River and Harbors Act, both of which set out substantive standings for permitting, and the National Environmental Policy Act, which talks about the set of issues that have to be adequately considered before any permit can be issued. There is no way to replace old-cypress trees once they are cut down. It was possible, as was in fact done, to chart a path through the Atchafalaya Basin to minimize the destruction of any swamp land. If mitigation requires perfect substitution then no pipeline could ever be built. But if mitigation carries its ordinary meaning, there are many ways to achieve it. But there is no reason to halt construction of the pipeline, at great cost, risk and expense, until the optimal mitigation strategy is determined by the Corps or the district court.    Alternatively, if mitigation is meant to cover the steps taken to reduce any loss from spillage or leakages, two responses are relevant. First, given the state-of-the-art construction of the BBP, the likelihood of any serious spillage is highly remote. Second, the standard clean-up procedures that have been long used, and are always capable of improvement can be put into place right now. Given that there have been no issues during the construction process to date, it is sensible to proceed with construction, as the discussion over any specialized mitigation plans are undertaken. The simple truth here is that uncompleted pipelines themselves create excess environmental risks, as do alternative modes of transportation. Given this situation, the District Court seriously erred in its decision to shut down the pipeline construction pending a full scale study by the Corps leading to the preparation of a full environmental impact statement. As the concurring opinion of Judge Priscilla Owen points out, under the standard text developed in the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia in the 1993 case of Allied-Signal v. U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the normal remedy of vacatur—which vacates the decision below—should not be adopted when the dislocations from stopping the project far exceed the environmental gains, if any, from allowing it to continue. In this case the balance was easy. The environmental and economic benefits of the project to the nation as a whole outweigh any minor risks of not having the ideal mitigation program in place. To shut down this project at this stage would be to give undue weight to remote environmental issues and to ignore the palpable losses that stopping the project will have for both environmental and economic issues. Fortunately, the Fifth Circuit heard the case on an expedited basis on March 13, 2018, and issued its decision staying the preliminary injunction two days later. That prompt action did not allow Judge Dick’s preliminary injunction to stand a second longer than necessary. Given the narrow grounds of objection that were Judge Dick thought were sufficient to support the preliminary injunction, it would be against the tenor and logic of the Fifth Circuit decision for her to adhere to her initial decision when there are so many more sensible ways to address the various mitigation problems that remain for the Army Corps to address before the completion of the project can take place. Read the original column here, and as always, look forward to your comments.   