He's baaa-aack! Vladimir Putin has become somewhat of a pariah in the West. They'll have to deal with the Russian president from now until 2024. Then it's curtains for the leader many liken to a modern czar, the aristocratic billionaires of their day who governed Russia before the Bolsheviks launched the U.S.S.R. Oddly enough, the Soviets were Europe's and America's biggest foe then and post-Soviet Russia is our biggest foe now. So much has changed... No one doubted Putin's victory. He won with 74% of the vote. The official announcement of his re-election will be made March 29. There have been images of women stuffing ballots with voting papers. Spy turncoat Edward Snowden, still wholled up somewhere in Russia, tweeted out a video shot of alleged election tampering and called on Russians to "take their future back." If the election data can be trusted, then Putin received a greater percentage of votes on Sunday than he has ever received. Russian political dramas have been so engraved in the VanEck Russia (RSX) fund that -- despite being red all day long -- the big Russian exchange traded fund still outperformed the MSCI Emerging Markets on Monday. Only Brazil had a better day. "The next six years will be an attempt to build a coalition government of two big parts of the Russian bureaucracy. There is one part of the government that is linked to the economic policy side that sees Russia as a modern economy linked to the rest of the world," Alexander Baunov, Carnegie Moscow Center senior fellow, told Bloomberg on Friday. "And the other part of the bureaucracy is not only more militaristic in their worldview, but still see the economy as a big factory...an old, Soviet-style, industrial economy." See: Stocks To Own As Fed Raises Rates -- Forbes A Bad Year For Russian Billionaires -- Forbes Here's How Much Lower The S&P 500 Needs To Go Before We're In A Bear Market -- Forbes This is Putin's last hurrah. He has managed what for most people in Russia would call a fairly successful transition from the confusing years of Boris Yeltsin to the Russia of today. People can afford cars. Young people can start their own companies. They are big in blockchain and cryptocurrency, and of course a global power in the commodities. Although Russia is home to political mysteries, intrigue, and violent corruption, it is safe to say that at least half the population prefers Putin's strongman leadership style to a return of communism. Post-Putin will likely be faced with another nationalist, with the best case scenario for the West being a new leader who goes along with their foreign policy. Taken from the Russian point of view, however, there is no one other than a character from the Muppet Show that they could possibly put in power who would be given the full blessing of Brussels. Or Washington. There will always be "something" and that something, of course, will keep Russia trading at a hefty discount to every other major emerging market. That's not changing in the next six years. The next six years are Putin's chance to finally greenlight the economic policies he has been bragging about for years, including privatization. Consensus already exists among much of the elites in the Finance Ministry and inside the central bank, but dyed-in-the-wool nationalists inside the military, including ex-KGB like Putin himself, are less keen to make changes. This cast of characters are as happy with stoking Washington as Washington is interested in poking the bear. It's good for the business of defense and consulting and spycraft that make up the permanent bureacracies of both the U.S. and Russia. Meanwhile, the market has one eye on Russian tensions and another eye on its publicly traded companies. Key economic policy decisions are dependent somewhat on the external outlook, such as OPEC deals and further sanctions. A New Russia...Again? Those key economic decisions include a focus on the development of infrastructure and modernizing the industrial base either to be more of a top-down, Soviet-style national factory type of system, or a more entrepreneurial Western style system. The market will be watching to see who Putin puts in charge of key economic posts this year. Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev is part of Putin's 'inner circle' and is expected to stay in his post. If he is let go, then the appointment of a more militaristic leader, who has a Soviet-style view of the economy, would lead to a sell-off of Russian securities. The president's economic team sends him a draft proposal on National Development Goals by 2024 on April 15. Key officials are appointed within four weeks after that proposal is received. This year's Saint Petersburg International Investment forum is being planned as a major international event where Putin lays out his foreign policy goals. So far, French President Emmanuel Macron and Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe have confirmed their participation in the Forum. Both Macron and Abe's presence are important because it lends Putin a level of legitimacy, showcasing to the world that Russia is an integral part of world affairs and a globalized economy. However, the status of at least Macron's attendance at the Saint Petersburg Forum is in question due to the deepening confrontation between Russia and the West and the new rounds of sanctions, the latest coming from the U.K. in connection with a Russia-Brit double agent, Sergey Skripal, who was poisoned this month, allegedly by Russians. Close Russia watchers think Putin prioritizes the digital economy and non-commodity exporters in his final term. Russia's so-called Digital Economy Program was announced as a high policy priority in 2017, with Putin expressing concern about falling behind in artificial intelligence in particular. Putin’s economic advisers -- particularly Andrey Belousov and Herman Gref, Sberbank's CEO -- consider digitalization a tool to accelerate economic growth. Putin has called it a national security matter due to fears of lagging behind China and the U.S. Putin also says he wants to increase the non-commodity exports to two times over the next six years. He also stated that the exports of engineering products should increase to $50 billion a year, according to a report by Moscow-based consultancy Kesarev Consulting. In practice, the government’s attention to non-commodity exports may result in improvement of programs to support exporters like removing existing trade barriers and stimulating the export of products made by foreign companies based in Russia. "Since the next six years may be the last term of Putin's presidency, some parts of the Russian political elite can consider him a 'lame duck' since the re-election," says Yury Panasik, a partner with Kesarev. "Putin can see in this situation a significant risk of decline in establishment loyalties and even possible political destabilization," he says. For him, Russia post-Putin is already something to consider and that alone might exert significant influence on Putin’s decisions in the first months of his new term.