Judging from the uproar it caused among the national news media and the general public, you might have thought that the Omnibus spending bill passed in the wee hours of last Friday morning by the U.S. Senate and signed into law by President Donald Trump funded literally every spending proposal under the sun. Indeed, on his Twitter feed, Senator Rand Paul listed some of the more obscure - and in his view, some of the more absurd - items funded by the bill, including: ...and on and on. You get the picture: As with most federal mass spending bills, last week's Omnibus act funds all manner of things that don't get a lot of media attention, and whose merits are highly questionable. Given that all of those things were funded by congress, one might think that getting congress to authorize the $225 million to live up to its agreement to fund part of the cost of dredging one of the nation's most critical and fastest-growing ports would be a no-brainer. But in thinking that, one would unfortunately be wrong. The Port of Corpus Christi (Port CC) is already the nation's largest port in terms of exports of crude oil. This is due to the December, 2015 repeal of the 1970s-era ban on crude exports, and to Port CC's close proximity to the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas and the vast Permian Basin of West Texas and Southeast New Mexico. Those two oil-producing regions have over the last decade turned out rapidly-increasing volumes of light, sweet crude oil, causing a imbalance with the Gulf Coast refining industry, whose infrastructure is better equipped to refine heavier-grade crudes imported from other countries. It was this then-looming supply imbalance that created the urgency in the oil and gas industry to repeal the 40 year-old export ban, and Port CC has since stepped up in a big way with facilities upgrades and continual process improvements. As currently configured, the Port still has significant room for export volume growth, but will ultimately be constrained by its inability to fully load the newest generation of super tankers in port. While such tankers are able to move into port when empty, Port CC's current depth will not allow them to leave when fully loaded. This is not a newly-discovered issue: Congress initially authorized exploring a plan for the Army Corps of Engineers to dredge and deepen Port CC way back in 1990. After years of study, an initial price tag for the project was tagged at $190 million. But years of congressional failure to authorize funding has resulted in the latest cost estimate coming in at $327 million, a number that will only continue to rise if the project continues to languish. As the Corpus Christi Caller reported last week, Port CC's $102 million share of the project has already been raised and put in the bank, and the Port even put up a little more than $32 million in advance funding in order to get the first phase of the project started. Last week, frustrated with ongoing congressional inaction in living up to the federal obligations under the agreement between the Port and the Corps of Engineers, the Port CC Commission took the extraordinary step of approving the issuance of up to $400 million in new debt in its hopes to see the project completed by the year 2021. It is, in a word, absurd that congress has behaved so irresponsibly that Port officials felt the need to take this action. The Texas congressional delegation, with so many of its members in positions of leadership, should have been able to ensure the funding for such a strategically important project was included in such a massive spending bill. Texas state officials should also be embarrassed at their own failure to work to find ways to keep this crucial project moving ahead. Port CC is a huge economic driver for the entire state, and the Texas Rainy Day Fund has more than $10 billion sitting in it, virtually all of which was provided by severance taxes on oil and natural gas. State leaders need to think about what might happen to that revenue stream if production out of the Eagle Ford Shale and Permian Basin had to be curtailed due to lack of refining and export capacity. Port CC's leadership is to be highly commended for doing everything it can to move this dredging and deepening operation ahead . But it is a sad commentary on the irresponsible nature of the U.S. congress that the Port felt the need to issue debt in order to do it. 