Every March, the Federal Reserve revises Industrial Production data by benchmarking to more accurate data gathered by survey, as opposed to preliminary estimates. Usually, this does not entail many fireworks and very rarely is analyzed by Wall Street economists. However, it is not uncommon for there to be rather large revisions. For instance in 2001, a large portion of industrial production growth during the tech bubble was erased, as one journalist reported on my work at the time: https://www.nytimes.com/2001/11/30/business/the-good-old-days-were-not-as-good-as-we-thought.html Within Industrial Production, for the manufacturing sector (measured by the NAICS method), a year ago, the March 2017 annual revision showed that growth was revised down sharply for 2014 and 2015. Before that there was 3.8% growth from July 2014 through February 2017 (the last month recorded before the revision). After the revision, there was only 0.9% growth. In last Friday’s revision for 2015 and 2016, another large chunk of manufacturing production disappeared and growth for that period through February 2017 is now -0.8%. Using these revised numbers, it did not exceed the July 2014 level until October 2017; thus, there were three years in which it did not grow. Fortunately, growth has continued upward since then. Clearly, it is not easy to measure production growth when technology, especially in electronics, is advancing so quickly and the quality of many goods continues to improve. It seems, however, that like 2001, Fed statisticians over-estimated the quality improvement or quantity of factory output and actually, there was an industrial mini-recession in 2015 through much of 2016. Source: Federal Reserve Outside manufacturing, the revisions were not significant for mining (which includes fossil fuels). Overall industrial production is just now matching the prior peak of December 2014 (when the plunge in oil prices began to impact oil production equipment and the economies of the oil-patch), whereas prior to Friday’s revision, it was 1% higher. Looking back further, February 2017 industrial production is now shown to be about 2.4% below the data reported prior to the last two annual revisions, showing a large fall from the December 2014 peak rather than the rather mild one. Source: Federal Reserve One advantage of these downward revisions is that capacity utilization is often revised down, meaning that inflationary risks are lower. Prior to Friday’s revision, for the NAICS-based manufacturing industry, it was 77.5%, which is a moderately high level for this series since 2000, but now it stands at 76.5%. This remains, however, near the 2014 post-Global Financial Crisis peak level, so there is some scope for inflationary pressure. In sum, one must treat economic statistics with some grain of salt and economists using the current data should understand that any correlations with unrevised data, like financial market data, does not equate to what economists were studying at the time. 