Does anyone still believe Mr. Twitter Man is good for stocks? Trashing Amazon a snappy 10% over a week’s trading reminds me of John Kennedy’s face-off with Roger Blough, headman at U.S. Steel. Blough announced a steel price hike in 1961 so Kennedy danced on his head. This was enough to touch off a mini-panic in the market. But, cooler heads prevailed… Joe Kennedy advised his son to tone down his rhetoric and Blough then backed off and the market snapped back. I’m betting against our President willfully destroying the market. Too many citizens own index funds and ETFs. My biggest fear, why I retain some reserves, is public panic forces redemptions of mutual funds and ETFs. We’re talking trillions here. Historically, such a bleak scenario normally puts the market at book value and 10 times earnings, yielding nearly 5%. It happened in 1969 – ‘70, 1982 and 2000 thanks to the tech bubble. Warren Buffett then might be the only investor left standing to buy Mr. Market. Wall Street would drop off heaps of unproductive analysts and traders. The Street might even become a small village, again, like 1959. (I’ve gone too far.) Few places to hide. AT&T yielding 5.6% at least a solid earner with a conservative dividend payout ratio, might not decline more than 10% or 15%. Same for MLPs yielding anywhere from 6% to 9% with sustainable ratios of distributable funds to operating cash flow. But if oil quotes break down to $50 a barrel, head for the hills. Where to hide these days, but in 2-year Treasuries yielding 2.25%? Inflation adjusted this is zilch. Expectations of a sharply positive yield curve now seem a pipe dream. (Buffett sits with 40% of his equity portfolio in financials, a triple weighting.) I haven’t seen any credible explanations on why the yield curve suddenly soured to flattish. Don’t blame Trump for market overvaluation. There’s 10% risk to the S&P 500 Index if reset at 15 times earnings. This is a fair market multiple based on interest rates, more inflation, even 3% GDP momentum. The Street’s shaky punditry puts the S&P 500 at 3,000 by yearend. Earnings would need to compound at 15% or more, powered by heavily weighted sectors like technology, financials and industrials. Banks would need to become major beneficiaries of elevating net interest margins, double-digit growth in outstanding loans and rising turnover in securities trading. Nothing’s so airtight and simplistic. Everyone sees 10-year Treasuries ticking at 3.5% with 30-year notes pushing 4%. Meantime, the yield curve has flattened out for 1 to 5-year paper now yielding over 2%. So banks need to pay up for deposits. Net interest margins rising may not be in the cards. Junk bonds were expected to flounder with yield disparity too narrow compared with AAA corporates. So far, it ain’t happening. Buffett sits with over 14% of his equity portfolio in Wells Fargo, an outstanding non-performer among banks. Stock selection counts. Bank of America, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase are better acting pieces of paper. Strangely, I haven’t heard any satisfactory explanation on the yield curve suddenly turning so flattish. The best I can do is reason that the Treasury is financing more of its needs in shorter maturity paper. Strategically, they should be redeeming short maturities and selling 30-year bonds which today yield 250 basis points below their normalized 5.5% these past 50 years. For the S&P 500 to see 3,000 by yearend, Alphabet, Amazon and Facebook, along with Apple need to be good acting stocks at close to 20% of the market’s valuation. Bank stocks must be powered by rising net interest margins while interest rates on 10 and 30-year Treasuries levitate between 50 and 100 basis points. Anything more pressures the price-earnings ratio which historically stands in high ground, close to 20 times earnings projections. But, 20 times earnings ain’t a sustainable metric. Only if more daylight is visible on 2019’s economic setting. We need GDP growing better than 3% and inflation ranging no higher than 3%. Operating profit margins for major industrials must be expansive. With industrial capacity utilization tapped, firmer pricing is achievable. I rate this scenario at better than a 50-50 probability. It excludes serious geopolitical confrontations, a trade war, even a financial crisis touched off by bad consumer and industrial loans outstanding. If we get the tiger instead of the lady, the market is in a pickle. First, inflation and interest rates break out of their narrow range. The impact on the price-earnings ratio is serious, taking it down to 15 times earning power of $140 a share or 2,100 on the S&P 500. This is an unacceptable risk, near 20%. If I believed such a scenario had more than a 20% chance of happening, I’d sell out my e-commerce and Internet paper tout de suite. Basic industrials like General Motors get thrown out the window. Bank and brokerage house paper would be underweighted, not overweighted. The emphasis stretches to paper yielding 5% to 7%. This includes AT&T and high quality MLPs like Enterprise Products Partners. I’d be bored to death. Nondurables wouldn’t get my money. No Procter & Gamble or Coca-Cola, already too expensive and hardly growable. Drug houses also pricey non-cyclicals. Basic industrials would fade away. International operators like Deere, United Technologies and Caterpillar turn into dead paper. The energy sector stands vulnerable to much lower quotes for oil, fifties not seventies. Now the U.S. is the world’s swing producer, pumping out some 10 million barrels, daily, and now exporting shale oil, the incremental variable, its cost structure low fifties. How long can OPEC restrain production? Nobody knows. Last week I singled out Facebook for greed and devil-may-care attitude towards its users. Amazon is now in Trump’s sights. I’m a holder. You can fault Alphabet as too pricey and Apple because nobody can model iPhone demand. R&D remains on the low side compared with Internet operators like Facebook. Nobody’s non-impeachable. My bet is Facebook becomes analyzable by yearend. Same goes for Amazon. Both dangerous but packing powerful metrics like operating cash flow. Facebook overspends for R&D while Jeff Bezos is a fearless operator of creative destruction. Why give a hoot for beleaguered shopping centers and outmoded retailers? My shoes I buy on the Internet and save 25%. Let’s applaud management at Walmart for considering the transformative acquisition of Humana. Mr. Sam would vote for this. After all, he cut out the middleman in retailing. Has our President thought about productivity as a leading indicator for the country’s health? Walmart sells at a sizable price-earnings ratio which gives ‘em plenty of room, not a moribund shopping center needing attention. The market now has second thoughts about whether President Trump is a plus factor, a healthy reaction in our fluffy setting. Hopefully solid earnings drown out Twitter Man’s testy patter. Trump should buy 100 shares of Amazon for each of his family. Sosnoff and his managed accounts own: Amazon, AT&T, Wells Fargo preferred, Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, Alphabet, Facebook, General Motors and Enterprise Products Partners. msosnoff@gmail.com 