Dealing with potential down markets is tricky. One reason that stocks have tended to rise over time is that they sometimes have major falls price such as in 2008, and the early 2000s. During both periods the stock market essentially halved in value, or worse. Historically, these dips have often been short-lived. Yet, it's obviously hard to be sure that declines are permanent when markets are falling and you're having an obvious emotional reaction to seeing your life savings cut in half. So, what can be done to offer you protection from periodic market dips? Ignore Stocks Of course, the obvious way to improve your fortunes in a down market is to remove stocks from your portfolio. However, for most longer term savers, this is likely too drastic a solution. Stocks have historically been the best performing of the major asset classes, when examined across countries and decades. As a result, removing stocks entirely, may make a portfolio's returns more steady, but it also potentially severely limit growth prospects over time. Consider Tracking An Index The first thing to consider to help smooth returns is diversification by spreading your risk. Individual stocks can go to zero. However, well constructed indices tracking major markets typically don't. Of course, there's no magic here, stocks within the index will still fall to zero, but the nice thing about stocks is some deliver exceptional returns, doubling or tripling or better. If you own an index, then, yes, you'll have some zeros in there, but you'll also have some spectacular returns, and that's the beauty of indexing. You'll also more than likely see some offsetting moves within the index, to help returns. For example, if oil companies fall on a falling oil price, then transportation stocks that use a lot of oil may benefit from lower oil prices. Hence indices often have balances built-in, and this can smooth returns. So it matters what sort of stocks your holding, if you are holding just a handful of companies that a similar in terms of their sector or country exposure, then you may be in for a bumpy ride without helping your return prospects. Yet, if your tracking an index, then the highs and lows may be more measured. Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) have seen increasingly popularity in a recent decades as a way to track an index in a way that may not change your returns all that much, but can cut your risk. For example, the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (ticker: SPY) tracks 500 of the largest companies in America. If you want to diversify beyond the U.S., then the Vanguard Total World Stock ETF tracks (ticker: VT) holds over 8,000 companies globally, with material exposure (1% weighting or more) to at least 15 countries, although the U.S. still represents over half the fund at the time of writing. Work Out Your Bond Exposure (Before You Panic) The other way to take some risk potentially off the table, but still earn a return, is through holding bonds. Bonds, especially high quality government bonds, offer a coupon that is likely to paid even if the market is panicking. This so-called negative correlation between stocks and bonds is not foolproof, but it can offer some protection. At the very least, in a bear market it's likely bonds will hold up better than stocks, even if they may not always deliver a positive return. With recent rises in interest rates, the U.S. Treasury 10 Year Bond now offers a 2.8% yield, which is comfortably ahead of recent inflation and the long-term level of inflation in the U.S. So, bonds may now be offering better value than they have in recent years. Bonds more than likely won't set your portfolio on fire with stellar price appreciation, but in a down market you may be thankful you have them and their steady coupon payments. The logic of bond in portfolios is relatively straightforward, but the important thing is to make sure that you consider this before the markets enter a tailspin. An Exchange Traded Fund (ETF) such as iShares Barclays Aggregate Bond Fund (ticker: AGG) or the Vanguard Total Bond Market ETF (ticker: BND) can be simple ways to add diversified bond exposure to your portfolio. Deciding that you need more bond exposure when stocks are off 20% or 30% is quite different to deciding you need more bonds in a more stable market. Selling stocks in a panic can cause permanent loss of capital. Just ask anyone who moved to cash in 2008. Planning things out ahead of time, may leave some potential returns from stocks on the table in good years, but if you have a strategy you can live with for the long-term and can sleep well at night, then that's an important bonus. As a rule of thumb, all but the most aggressive and long-term of investors should have a minimum of 20% bonds in their portfolio. At this level bonds are a useful asset class for diversification tool. At the other extreme, a pure bond portfolio doesn't make sense for many investors either, unless you're investing very short-term or extremely risk averse or both. So somewhere between 20% stocks and 80% stocks is the broad spectrum that most people should consider, so as to benefit from the way that stocks and bonds tend to move in different directions. Put Options Put options may seem an ideal option for insuring your portfolio, but these are not without risk. Put options generally rise in value when the assets they track falls. Firstly, options are quite complicated things to trade. The markets can be an expensive way to get an education. This can happen if you don't understand the fundamentals of how put options work and get something wrong. So start smaller than you think if you're doing your first options trades. Also, put options are something a lot of investors want. They essentially provide insurance in the event of a market decline, who wouldn't want that? The fact that put options are popular, perhaps causes them to be more expensive than "fair value." This has been true historically, you often end up paying a premium to hold put options. So yes, put options can smooth your portfolio, but they'll also lower your returns in good markets. Two Key Steps To Take Now So, unfortunately there's no free lunch when it comes to bear market protection, but you can avoid the common mistakes. Two things you can consider doing now are: