Fresh off a visit to Washington, the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia is turning to Russia to help the OPEC leader remain a force in world oil markets that have been rattled by the development of U.S. shale. In an exclusive that quietly ran on the Reuters newswire Tuesday, Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman (MBS) said he wants long-term cooperation with Russia to stabilize oil prices. "We are working on moving from a model agreement for a year to a longer term — 10-20 years," MBS said in an interview with Reuters in New York. "Such an agreement exists, but the details have not yet been worked out." Last week, Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih said he expected to extend the pact for 2019. The story broke this week but was already in the works prior to MBS' trip to the U.S. The OPEC-Russia deal began operating in 2017 in an effort to reduce the accumulated oil reserves built up between 2014 and 2016 and restore the balance in the market. At the time, Brent oil prices had fallen to around $30 per barrel thanks to those reserves and runaway U.S. shale oil production. The agreement was for a decrease in production by OPEC countries by 1.2 million barrels per day and by countries outside the organization by 558,000 per day compared to October 2016 production levels. That deal was extended last May and ends this year.    The formal criterion for achieving the deal's goal was to reduce oil reserves to an average level over five years. On Nov. 26, Alexander Novak, the head of Russia's Ministry of Energy, said that first OPEC and Russia had to reach their reserve goals, and then after that "there will be a smooth exit" from the deal, the Kommersant business daily reported on Wednesday. Brent oil has already hit over $70 per barrel this year, but that will likely be undercut by greater production here in the U.S. On Tuesday, Barclays forecast falling crude prices for the U.S. and Europe for the remainder of the year. Fitch believes that U.S. production could grow by 1.7 million barrels per day in 2018, but said they do not expect prices to fall below the $50-$60 range due to strong demand. Russian oil companies, meanwhile, say they are going to increase production in the coming years, too. Oil major Rosneft says its oil production should grow by 10% over the next four years, though that would not be allowed under the existing agreement. Gazprom Neft was forced to reduce its oil production growth rates due to the government's deal with OPEC. Alexander Dyukov, the company's CEO, told Reuters that the parameters of the agreement in the second quarter could undergo changes that "will lead to an increase in (oil production) quotas" for them and others in the deal. This could pressure oil prices lower. Saudi Arabia's motivation here is understandable. The U.S. and Russia are now serious competitors to OPEC. Once Russia discovers ways to draw out hydrocarbons from its own shale reserves, Saudia Arabia will become a tertiary player in a market it dominated for generations. OPECs influence has seriously decreased over the last 17 years. It started with the collapse of Iraq during the 2003 war and economic sanctions on Iran. Iran sanctions are now lifted and they are selling to Saudi Arabia's traditional markets in Europe. The two countries are bitter rivals, coming from different ends of the Muslim religion that is akin to the battles between Catholics and Protestants in the U.K. The attempt of Saudi Arabia to arrange a "price swing" with Russia has worked in the past. It lowered oil prices and put some shale producers in bankruptcy. For the Saudi's, a better deal might be a Saudi-Russia deal as Iran may throw a wrench in the Kingdom's plans for a variety of politically-motivated reasons hard to know before they really happen. Given the mixed composition of OPEC, the long-term agreement with Russia will likely only be of a framework nature and subject to on-the-fly adjustments, industry analysts sourced by Kommersant believe. Moreover, it is not really in Russia's interest to keep oil prices low just to make U.S. shale and LNG less competitive in Europe, Russia's main market. Russia benefits from higher oil prices. A rise in oil prices to $70 again could bring the Russian government a windfall of an additional one trillion rubles, based on government figures.   