Not all Dividend Aristocrats are overpriced today. We examine five Dividend Aristocrats that are trading at attractive valuations and are suitable for long-term investment, writes Ben Reynolds, income expert and editor of Sure Dividend, and frequent contributor to MoneyShow.com. The Dividend Aristocrats are an elite group of dividend stocks. In order to be a Dividend Aristocrat, a company must: The last requirement – two and a half decades of rising dividends – is the most important inclusion requirement of the Dividend Aristocrats. A company requires a durable competitive advantage to raise its dividend for such an extended period of time. Indeed, the Dividend Aristocrats have delivered significant outperformance over the broader stock market. The last decade has seen the Dividend Aristocrats deliver 12.6% annualized returns. The S&P 500 has delivered 9.7% annualized returns during the same time period. In other words, the Dividend Aristocrats have outperformed the S&P 500 by 2.9% per year over the last decade. What is most surprising is the Dividend Aristocrats Index has delivered superior returns while maintaining lower volatility than the S&P 500. Clearly, there are benefits to investing in this high-quality group of dividend stocks. This article discusses the 5 best Dividend Aristocrats to buy today. Dividend Aristocrat #1: Walgreens Boots Alliance WBA +0% Walgreens Boots Alliance is one of the world’s largest pharmacy and retail companies. Walgreens has over 13,200 stores in 11 countries and employs more than 400,000 people. Walgreens stands out because of its combination of business performance and attractive valuation. In January, Walgreens reported financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Top line sales of $30.7 billion increased by 7.2% on a constant-currency basis. Adjusted diluted earnings-per-share increased by 15.5%. The Retail Pharmacy USA segment drove Walgreens’ performance. This business unit is the one that most United States investors will be familiar with as consumers. In the quarter, the segment’s sales increased by 8.9% and comparable store sales increased by 4.7%. Digitization efforts boosted the company's performance. More than 20% of Walgreens’ refill drug scripts started in digital channels, the Walgreens mobile app being the most notable example. Despite Walgreens’ strong performance, the markets continue to assign a low valuation to the company. For investors, this is puzzling. The only negative aspect of Walgreens’ recent earnings release was U.S. retail sales – a component of the Retail Pharmacy USA’s performance – falling by 2.8%. Walgreens' cheap valuation is not likely to last, but it’s important to quantify its current valuation. The company is expecting adjusted earnings-per-share in the range of $5.45 to $5.70 for the full-year of fiscal 2018. Using the midpoint, the company is trading at a price-to-earnings ratio under 12 right now. Walgreens has traded at a price-to-earnings ratio of around 17, on average, over the last 10 years. This combination of above-average growth and below-average valuation presents a unique buying opportunity for dividend investors. Dividend Aristocrat #2: ExxonMobil XOM +0% ExxonMobil is the world’s largest publicly-traded integrated energy company. Tracing its roots back to Rockefeller’s Standard Oil, ExxonMobil currently operates in four segments: Upstream, Downstream, Chemical, and Corporate & Financing. The obvious story related to ExxonMobil is oil prices. The company’s financial results (and its stock price) have suffered as oil prices fell well below their normal levels. Indeed, between 2014 and 2016, the average price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil fell from $108 to $26. Unfortunately, the company’s expenses were not so elastic. This had a profound impact on the company’s financial results. Exxon responded by divesting assets and making other tough capital allocation decisions. Of course, oil prices have rebounded from their 2016 lows. Looking ahead, the data suggests oil prices still have some upside. So far in calendar 2018, the average price of WTI been $63, yet its average price over the past 10 years has been $76 – or 21% higher than this year's average. What about the company’s valuation? Falling oil prices caused Exxon’s stock price to drop from around $104 to a low of about $69. A quick check up on the company’s stock price shows that it is not far from its cheapest point since 2015. Of course, a drop in stock price means nothing if the fundamentals have also deteriorated. This is where many investors find it difficult to assess ExxonMobil. The cyclical nature of this business means that the traditional price-to-earnings ratio is not useful. Instead, ExxonMobil should be analyzed using the PE10. The PE10 is also called the cyclically adjusted price-to-earnings ratio (CAPE) and the Schiller PE, and is used to analyze cyclical companies like ExxonMobil. You can calculate this metric by dividing a company’s stock price by its average earnings over the last 10 years. ExxonMobil’s average earnings over the last ten years are $5.96. Dividing the company’s current stock price by this average earnings figure gives a PE10 of 12. ExxonMobil has historically traded at a PE10 of approximately 14. The company appears undervalued at current prices. Moreover, the company’s 4%+ yield is appealing to investors seeking to generate portfolio income now. Dividend Aristocrat #3: Cardinal Health CAH +0% Cardinal Health is one of the 3 large U.S. drug distribution companies. Its main competitors are McKesson MCK +0% The defining characteristic of Cardinal Health’s investment thesis is the company’s valuation. The markets have punished Cardinal’s stock in response to several adverse developments, many of which are likely overblown. The first is the potential entry of Amazon into the pharmaceutical distribution industry. While this is a possibility, it’s not certain that Amazon will enter the market. Even if Amazon does enter, it’s questionable how much market share the online retail giant will capture. Amazon's strategy is to enter industries and operate at slim (or negative) margins with the goal of capturing market share from incumbent businesses. Cardinal Health’s business model simply doesn’t have the margins to make this possible. The company operated with a gross margin of 5.3% and a net margin of 1.4% in the most recent quarter. Another narrative is the potential legal implications of Cardinal’s role in the opioid crisis. This is a very real problem for U.S. residents. Still, Cardinal’s role in the crisis appears to be minimal. The likely legal outcomes should not impair the company’s long-term profitability. The last reason why Cardinal Health’s stock price has fallen is elevated competition. There is a vicious pricing war occurring among the Big 3 pharmaceutical distributors. We do not expect this period of intense competition to last. Meanwhile, Cardinal Health’s financial performance continues to be within our expectations. In early February, the company reported quarterly financial results. Cardinal Health printed 6% year-on-year revenue growth and 13% growth in adjusted earnings-per-share. The company also continues to allocate capital in a very shareholder-friendly manner. In the same earnings release, it announced a new $1 billion share repurchase plan. This amounts to about 5% of the company’s current market capitalization. For today’s investors, Cardinal Health is presenting a compelling value proposition. The company expects adjusted earnings-per-share of $5.25 to $5.50 in 2018 (which ends June 30). This implies a price-to-earnings ratio of around 12 at the midpoint. Given that the company’s 10-year average earnings multiple is around 17, today’s investors are likely to be well-rewarded. Dividend Aristocrat #4: AT&T T +0% AT&T is the largest telecommunications company in the U.S. based on market capitalization. Its only competitor of a similar size is Verizon. Like Walgreens, AT&T is an example of a company whose fundamental performance is above-average but whose valuation is below average. In the most recent quarter, AT&T reported a slight revenue drop. The top line came in at $41.7 billion compared to $41.8 billion in the prior year’s quarter. AT&T’s legacy businesses, wireline services, wireless service, and domestic video, all caused this top line contraction. Despite this poor revenue performance, AT&T’s bottom line performed far better. Adjusted earnings-per-share rose by 18.2% in the quarter. Share repurchases and efficiency gains had the largest positive impact on profits in the quarter. So why such a cheap valuation for this high-quality Dividend Aristocrat? AT&T’s stock price reflects uncertainty surrounding the acquisition of Time Warner TWX +0% This was a surprise for both AT&T and its investors. The company said in a press release that the lawsuit is a “radical and inexplicable departure from decades of antitrust precedent." Separately, the company’s CEO said, “the best legal minds in the country agreed this deal would be approved.” Make no mistake, the Time Warner deal offers a number of unique benefits for AT&T as the acquiring company. It will allow the telecommunications behemoth to provide new levels of choice, innovation, and value through an end-to-end media experience. The merger is expected to be accretive to adjusted earnings-per-share and free cash flow per share within a year of closing. It is also expected to improve AT&T’s already-sound dividend coverage. What should investors make of this lawsuit? First and foremost, the AT&T investment thesis is not solely (or even primarily) dependent on the Time Warner acquisition. Still, there is a good chance the deal will close, given the comparable precedent in the form of Comcast CMCSA +0% Aside from the Time Warner lawsuit, what really stands out about AT&T is the company’s valuation and dividend yield. Simply put, AT&T is likely the single safest company to have a dividend yield above 5%. This is because of the company’s low valuation. AT&T’s recently-published annual report provided guidance for earnings-per-share of approximately $3.50 for fiscal 2018. Based on this figure, AT&T is currently trading at a price-to-earnings ratio of around 10. At a valuation less than half as expensive as the average stock in the S&P 500, AT&T is a compelling investment at current prices. Dividend Aristocrat #5: Genuine Parts GPC +0% Genuine Parts Company distributes automotive replacement parts, industrial replacement parts, office products and electrical materials. The company is well-known for its NAPA Auto Parts brand and has a presence in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Australia, and New Zealand. Last year was a strong one for Genuine Parts. In particular, the company’s fourth quarter exceeded analyst expectations. Revenue of $4.21 billion beat estimates of $4.05 billion while earnings-per-share of $1.19 surpassed expectations of $1.05. The Genuine Parts top and bottom lines grew by 11% and 10%, respectively, over the prior year’s period. What is easily noticeable about Genuine Parts Company is the company’s long growth runway. It is well-positioned to benefit from two simultaneous trends: the increasing average age of North American automobiles and the rising number of cars in the worldwide vehicle fleet. The Genuine Parts operational history suggests that it should capture much of this growth. The company has achieved sales growth in 85 out of its 95-year history. Profits have expanded in 74 of those 90 years. Knowing that the automotive industry is a very cyclical component of the stock market, this performance is even more impressive. Genuine Parts is a high-quality business with strong growth prospects, and yet the markets continue to assign it a valuation that is below both its long-term average and the average valuation among large-cap companies. The company is expecting to generate earnings-per-share of around $5.67 in fiscal 2018. This implies a price-to-earnings ratio of about 16. For context, Genuine Parts has traded at an average price-to-earnings ratio of 17 over the last decade, and the S&P 500 average earnings multiple is about 25. Genuine Parts is a rare example of an affordable high-quality business in the current market environment. Final Thoughts The Dividend Aristocrats are a group of high-quality dividend stocks with 25+ years of consecutive dividend increases. They have outperformed the S&P 500 with less volatility over meaningful periods of time. We believe that this is largely due to the underlying quality of these businesses. However, the problem with investing in quality businesses is price. High-quality often means high prices, which reduces future returns. Not all Dividend Aristocrats are overpriced today.