The oil and gas industry is all about managing big risks – dry holes, wildly fluctuating oil prices and cost overruns. Oil companies and investors bear the brunt or enjoy the benefits of their decisions when those risks go badly or go well. But one risk more directly affects the public: the risk of leaks and explosions. The Trump Administration’s Interior Department recently overturned and weakened existing rules that required companies producing offshore to provide formal financial assurances that they will appropriately decommission and abandon their offshore structures and restore the area once production ends. That is out of step with the rest of the world. And it could lead to serious trouble. Following sound decommissioning and abandonment practices means that companies must plug the wellbores, “tie-off” wellheads, drain pipelines and storage tanks of toxic chemicals or petroleum products, and partially or fully dismantle the production platforms and clear them from shipping lanes. Otherwise, the abandoned facilities are at greater risk of leaks, explosions and shipping accidents. Consequently, bodies such as the International Maritime Organization and the U.N. Law of the Sea have established standards and guidelines for how such work should be carried out. The problem is that the costs of this clean-up work are incurred after production and revenue have ceased – no funds are available to pay for it at that time. The overturned U.S. Department of Interior regulations (NTL No 2008-N07) required companies to provide clear financial assurance that funds would be provided for this work by posting a financial bond, taking out an insurance policy, issuing a third-party guarantee or arranging a letter of credit with a financial institution that the government could call on if the company did not follow through. There was very little leeway in these requirements. Why was this even necessary you might ask? We tend to think of oil companies as financial behemoths with annual revenues greater than the GDPs of most countries. But most of the well-known, financially secure oil majors end up selling off their aging properties to small independents who are specialists in cheaply extracting the last bit of oil from the reservoirs. These smaller operators do not have deep pockets and often carry heavy debt loads; because of their more precarious financial conditions, they are at a much higher risk (there is that “risk” word again) of reneging on their obligations, including the obligation to properly decommission and abandon their aged facilities. Were the previous requirements just another example of government overreach that damaged U.S. competitiveness in petroleum as claimed by Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke? Based on commercial considerations and international comparisons, the answer would appear to be, No. Whenever large oil companies sell off their declining properties, they agree on a sales price that roughly compensates them for the remaining net value they are giving up. The final price negotiated is full discounted/reduced to account for the expected future costs of restoration and abandonment. In other words, the small independents acquired the declining properties at a discount for that very reason so they would have fully anticipated and been already “compensated” via a lower purchase price, in exchange for bearing future decommissioning costs. Standard global government regulations and agreements require companies to provide some financial assurances that cover the cost of abandonment of their properties. The exact nature of the arrangements varies; most methods entail some degree of judgement and valuation of the remaining reserves. In Angola for example, where I was involved in negotiating many of the details, government rules go beyond a bond or insurance policy and require that companies pre-fund decommissioning costs in cash over time into a trust account. In the United Kingdom, the government has the power to block the sale of an offshore property if the buyer does not put in place adequate decommissioning security. The U.K. government also can, in certain circumstances, hold financially accountable companies that no longer hold an interest in the property if their successors default. From personal experience, decommissioning funding obligations are a critical part of the negotiation of any sale of assets in the North Sea. The State of Texas Railroad Commission, as the oil industry regulator for state coastal waters, requires financial securities be posted under its Rule §3.78. And since 1977 the Securities and Exchange Commission has required oil companies to record and disclose in public financial reporting their estimated pro rata liability for future decommissioning and abandonment costs. (I was a part of the original implementation design team for a major oil company at that time.) As one example, Chevron had by the end of 2016 recorded a $14 billion liability for its share of such costs globally. Decommissioning is a significant obligation, widely recognized around the world as requiring advance financial assurances and disclosures. The previous U.S. rules were in line with worldwide practice. The new regulations (NTL No. 2016-N01) do away with the rigid requirements and in their place grant the Interior Department’s Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) significant discretion as to whether security is required and if so, how much, based on fairly subjective criteria such as the company’s trade references and projected business stability, past financial health, projections of future cash flow and past reliability. On the surface, this sounds like a pragmatic and flexible business approach. But the reality is that oil markets change quickly and what may look like a financially sound company in a time of high prices can quickly become one in immediate danger of default within a few months of a price downturn. These new rules will place the BOEM regional director in the untenable position of having to immediately impose sweeping additional financial security requirements at the very time when companies are most likely to be abandoning uneconomic properties and can least afford the decommissioning. This is kind of like waiting until you have become terminally ill to take out medical and life insurance. The increased discretion will place tremendous political pressure on the BOEM to grant waivers and exceptions – a potentially dangerous and reckless approach. So why do the smaller companies object? Larger, more financially secure companies enjoy higher credit ratings (BBB to A) that permit them to provide a parent company guarantee or obtain credit assurance from an independent financial institution at relatively low cost. But many of the smaller independents operate with much greater debt relative to the value of their assets and have only a handful of income-producing properties to buffer the impact of large obligations. A financial institution will charge bigger fees to guarantee the obligations of those deemed to be riskier. Lower-rated B companies’ obligations are characterized by ratings agency Standard & Poor’s (S&P) as being “more vulnerable to nonpayment, but the obligor currently has the capacity to meet its financial commitment.” S&P goes on to caution that for these companies, “adverse business, financial, or economic conditions will likely impair the capacity or willingness to meet its financial commitments on the obligation.” Based on historical data compiled by S&P, 20% of all companies rated B will end up defaulting on their obligations within five years. Of those rated slightly worse, at CCC, approximately 40% will default within five years. And in 2016, according to S&P, low oil prices meant the overall oil industry rate of default had increased substantially, to four times its historical average and roughly seven times the general corporate default average. As oil prices drop, past company financial performance, the general standard that BOEM would likely utilize, loses reliability as a predictor of future default risk in the oil industry. The waters off the U.S. coast are not private property that can be controlled and preserved by individual owners, whose best interests are served by safely dismantling oil equipment after production ends to avoiding leaks and damages to their own property. The waters within U.S. maritime borders represent a public resource requiring public oversight. The question becomes, is the U.S. government and public willing to accept the risk that 20%-40% of financially vulnerable smaller oil companies are likely to default on their obligations to safely decommission and abandon the platforms and pipelines that they operate in public waters in the Gulf of Mexico? Loosening these financial security requirements may end up doing just that. 