We have become so accustomed in recent years to seeing headlines about companies making major acquisitions to either move into the booming Permian Basin or expand their existing operations there that when we read a headline that says "ConocoPhillips Sells Permian Assets and Expands Elsewhere" (Houston Chronicle, April 3, 2018) it really grabs your attention. In the face of a big independent like Pioneer Natural Resources announcing in February that it is staking its entire business on the Permian, or Concho Resources making the largest-ever acquisition of Permian assets, any news of a big Permian player selling acreage there seems counter-intuitive. Of course, when you drill down into the Chronicle's story, you find that the news about ConocoPhillips (COP) isn't so earth-shattering. In fact, the disposition of acreage in the Permian was made up of several small packages of non-core properties that have thus far remained largely undeveloped. Prior to these sales, COP owned 144,000 net acres of leasehold in the greater Permian region, and the vast majority of that acreage still remains in the company's portfolio. Far from leaving the Permian, the company is actually high-grading its asset base there , and using the proceeds from the sales to acquire acreage in other producing areas. One of those areas is the liquids-rich natural gas play in Alberta and British Columbia called the Montney Field, where COP announced a 35,000 acre acquisition that brings its overall leasehold in that area to 140,000 acres. Despite being a leaseholder in the Montney since 2009, COP had drilled just 29 appraisal wells there through the end of 2017, and plans to continue its resource appraisal activities throughout 2018. This new acquisition is a clear indication that the company is seeing positive results there. The company also announced it had acquired 245,000 new acres in the lower 48 states for very low entry cost, most of which is in the Austin Chalk play in Central Louisiana, another very liquids-rich formation. Matt Fox, executive vice president, Strategy, Exploration and Technology, said that “The acreage we’ve acquired in Louisiana and the Montney has the potential to add to our low cost of supply resource base without requiring significant near-term capital commitments. We have been able to fund these acquisitions with proceeds from asset dispositions, while reducing debt, accelerating share repurchases, maintaining capital discipline and retaining cash on the balance sheet. These actions are consistent with our clear strategic priorities, which are designed to create value for our shareholders through cycles.” When you see companies playing per-acre prices of $40,000, $50,000, even $60,000 per acre in the Permian, it's not hard to see why a company like COP would begin to focus on looking for significant acquisitions in other liquids-rich areas that come at a small fraction of that up-front cost. This counter-to-the-trend strategy has begun to attract significant notice from investors. The Wall Street Journal carried a report on Monday detailing the fact that COP's "shares have risen 29%, beating the S&P 500 and significantly outperforming the company’s U.S. rivals. Shares of Exxon, which recently laid out plans to increase spending by 25% or more beginning in 2020, have fallen by about 9% in that time." That's a pretty strong performance. Company CEO Ryan Lance says that the COP strategy of building large positions in low-cost, liquids-rich basins is designed to maximize the company's insulation to commodity price volatility: The company says its "sustaining price" is now around $40/bbl, and that, in this current $60/bbl world, it is focusing on returning a large chunk of that surplus to its investors. The strong performance of the company's stock in recent months indicates that this seemingly counter-intuitive strategy is one that investors truly appreciate. 