Exxon Mobil’s Crude Oil & NGL segment contributed a little over 10% to the company’s overall revenues in 2017, but we estimate that the segment accounts for around 45% of the company’s overall value. This can be attributed to a higher contribution of the Crude Oil & NGL segment to the company’s overall EBITDA. We have created an interactive dashboard, which compares the Crude Oil & NGL to other segments of the company. You can adjust the revenue and EBITDA drivers to see the impact on the company’s overall revenues and EBITDA. Below we discuss our expectations and forecasts for the company. Expect Crude Oil, NGL, And Other Upstream Business To Drive EBITDA Growth In 2018 And Beyond We estimate the Crude Oil & NGL EBITDA to grow roughly 16% in 2018, and slightly lower in 2019. This growth will be led by a ramp up in revenues, as well as the margins. In November 2016, the OPEC members entered into an agreement to restrict their cumulative oil production by 1.2 million boed in 2018. So far, they have stood by their commitment, despite an increase in the U.S. oil exports to Asia. Accordingly, we estimate the annual average crude oil prices for Exxon could average at around $54 per barrel this year, and rise back to around $80 per barrel by 2024. It should be noted that a $54 price realization for Exxon reflects a 10% jump in pricing as compared to the prior year. A pricing boost will aid the segment revenue growth, and also provide room for margin expansion. Furthermore, production costs, which include production taxes, transportation costs, and production-related general and administrative expenses, have been on a decline for the past few years. While a portion of these costs is likely to increase when the commodity prices rebound, it will be notably lower compared to the previous levels. Accordingly, we estimate a 200 basis point increase in EBITDA margin for Exxon’s Crude Oil & NGL division. Note that the segment revenues also include income from equity affiliates, for which the margins are 100%, primarily due to the fact that income from equity affiliates is counted entirely as profits on the company’s books. Expect Modest Revenue & EBITDA Growth In Other Segments 