Good news. Your gasoline isn't going to cost $3 a gallon this summer. (Unless you live in the #resistance headquarters of California). If Barclays Capital is right, oil prices are coming down. Barclays is forecasting oil prices for West Texas Intermediate, the base price for U.S. crude oil futures will fall to $58 in the second quarter and then to $51 in the third and fourth quarters. Brent crude is expected to fall from $62 to $57 by the end of the year. If they are right, lower oil prices bode well for the inflation outlook as cheaper oil means cheaper gasoline prices, a key fixture in the U.S. inflation index monitored by a newly hawkish Federal Reserve. Oil supply in OECD countries increased by 18 million barrels in January, but they grew at about half the average rate usually seen this time of year. In February, preliminary indications are that stocks fell due to the winter weather and a global supply and demand balance that has been signaling a deficit of about 600,000 barrels a day. This has kept oil prices strong. Global economic growth is helping demand, but geopolitical risks threaten to remove more supply especially from Iran and Venezuela as soon as April. Against this backdrop, the risks to the downside for oil look limited for the next several months. However, by the start of the second half, other factors are likely to push the market balance from a short-term deficit to surplus again, according to the market views of Barclays analysts led by Mike Cohen in New York.    See: Sorry Bears, The End Is Not Near -- Forbes Cohen expects OPEC compliance to wane and production to increase. The higher the prices are in the second quarter in advance of the OPEC meeting, the more likely it is that the non-OPEC/OPEC Declaration of Cooperation will change the quotas slightly, allowing for more output. The current tight oil outlook in the U.S. continues to improve. In line with an improved price outlook, Barclays' production forecast has moved up as the price outlook for 2018 has increased slightly. Barclays is more neutral on than bearish, and certainly not bullish this year. Others see it differently. One reason is the Saudi Aramco IPO next year. The state-controlled oil giant will sell a 5% stake to the market that could be worth as much as $2 trillion. Some observers think Saudi Aramco will do whatever it takes to prices stable to rising. "Energy stocks have disconnected from the oil price like never before because big sovereign wealth funds in Norway and elsewhere have been sellers," says Fernando Pertini, founder of Millenia Asset Management in Costa Rica. "I'd go long Energy Sector Select (XLE) and companies like Schlumberger (SLB), Halliburton (HAL) and Tenaris (TS). One day the spike in these stocks will make history," he says. All three are in the red over the last 12 months. After a bumpy start, total commodity assets under management (AUM) stood $13 billion higher by the end of February than they were by the end of December. Total commodity securities under management surged in January, driven by rising metals prices. Investments climbed $20 billion to $331 billion during the month, with inflows into commodity securities accounting for $5 billion of the increase. In February, as prices softened and outflows occurred, total AUM fell $7 billion to $324 billion into commodity-linked fund products, according to Barclays. 