Pipeline developers are finding it more difficult to build new projects these days, and that is despite the Trump Administration’s heavy emphasis on infrastructure. What was once a sleepy industry that silently delivered nearly two-thirds of all energy products the country utilizes on a daily basis is now front and center stage. While the legal and regulatory permitting processes for oil and gas pipelines have been more or less the same for years, the politics of pipelines have changed. Aggressive environmental protests and litigation, hostile state actions, and the leeway courts are giving pipeline opponents suggests that despite the need for new underground energy infrastructure, building new pipelines may not get any easier, and here are some reasons why. Environmental activism, focused particularly on climate change and social justice issues, is intensifying. Over the past decade, fossil fuel opponents have honed their focus on blocking the infrastructure and related assets needed to bring fossil fuels to market. Indeed, the environmental community and other opponents have evolved into a well-organized and well-funded movement. This movement has armed itself with increasingly sophisticated and replicable tactics for organizing grassroots opposition capable of influencing federal, state, and local policymakers. Activists are cultivating ideological political allies while increasingly motivated wealthy donors have allowed these movements to increasingly mobilize in communities where new infrastructure projects are planned. Take the Keystone XL project for example where liberal special interests opposed to KXL garnered support from conservative ranchers who represented the "not in my backyard" (NIMBY) point of view. As a result, one has to ask whether this too shall pass or whether the days of safely assuming a permitted pipeline project will be built are gone? The now famous Keystone XL Pipeline became a political hot potato, as did the Dakota Access Pipeline, but these headline grabbers are only part of the story. More concerning than protests are the actual regulatory and legal mechanisms that can be used to bog down, and even ultimately stop, even those proposed pipelines already under construction. Pipeline opponents have perfected regulatory and legal strategies in recent years, challenging every state and federal permit, often flooding dockets with thousands of extraneous comments, saddling licenses and permits with potentially unachievable conditions, stressing “potential” climate-related impacts, and generally utilizing any and all means and methods to fight against new infrastructure projects. Opponents efforts have limited impacts, as a string of recent delays and denials demonstrate. Such was the case for the Bayou Bridge Pipeline; a crude oil pipeline that was ordered to halt construction in an environmentally sensitive area that activists claimed had not been adequately considered by the federal government. A federal appeals court eventually dismissed the injunction holding that the local judge abused her discretion and “should have allowed the case to proceed on the merits and sought additional briefing from the Corps on the limited deficiencies noted in its opinion.” Nonetheless, these instances are becoming more and more frequent, causing costly delays and injecting more uncertainty into an already complex process. While no major pipeline project has been stopped dead in its tracks, these tactics aim to drive up the eventual costs on companies seeking to build new infrastructure. Moreover, even policy wins can be tainted by lawsuits or straight refusal to grant necessary permits, as California recently threatened to do in light of Interior’s pursuit of opening additional federal waters to offshore production. Being on the right side of the law doesn’t do anything to facilitate a timely outcome, and under the current adversarial climate, it can take years to permit projects – and companies may think twice about even proposing new projects. The ease of permitting depends upon which type of fuel is being piped. Interstate crude oil pipeline permit applications are considered on a state-by-state basis, while federal standards may also apply based on the specific location and attributes of the proposed project. Natural gas pipelines, on the other hand, are governed primarily by the Natural Gas Act (a federal law), which broadly preempts state and local permitting requirements, ultimately streamlining the process. The prevailing policy dialogue between supporters and opponents remains fixated on emotional arguments relating to foretelling disaster, demonizing fossil fuels, and making overly confident claims about the cost, reliability, and scalability of new energy technologies. Normally, economic losses from extreme events are misguidedly invoked as the pretext for radical changes to environmental and energy policies that, in fact, have no relevant impact on such events. The fossil energy industry currently enjoys the unabashed support of the Trump Administration as well as the support of many state governments. Given the systemic and long-term nature of the challenges facing the industry however, this support alone is insufficient to belay all concerns for the reasons previously stated as it does such support act to overcome all legal, political, and social obstacles, particularly those seen at state and local levels. Pipeline supporters will find opportunities to achieve legislative, policy, and regulatory gains from the Trump Administration. For example, attaching helpful language to any infrastructure bill derived from the President’s Infrastructure Initiative, or working to influence upcoming permitting guidance documents will prove beneficial. Already the pendulum has swung from the Obama Administration’s efforts to slow or stop fossil fuel related infrastructure development. Seizing any opportunity offered by the Trump Administration and a Republican-controlled Congress may be short-sighted however as the long-term health of the oil and gas sector ultimately depend on its ability to convey to political allies and shareholders, as well as to the public, that the continued use of fossil fuels is notinimical to effective climate policy. Even when pipeline developers obtain permits and approvals at the federal level, they must remain aware of political obstacles as state-level entities can throw a wrench in the works even when the federal side of the permitting process has signed off on the venture. Note the recent example of the Constitution Pipeline. The New York Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) was able to thus far thwart this natural gas pipeline project by denying it a permit even though the developer had already obtained certification from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). If FERC doesn’t reconsider how it treats state permit denials moving forward, NYSDEC may have started a dangerous trend for pipeline developers and their shippers. Despite general support within the current administration, President Trump’s recently implemented 25% tariff on steel and 10% tariff on aluminum may have a chilling effect on all infrastructure projects moving forward. Tariffs on finished line pipe and line pipe materials could be especially problematic for the industry because of the niche market for these products and because a disproportionately large share of these products are imported. Pipeline companies are even more dependent upon foreign suppliers of valves and other pipeline specialty equipment that simply are not made in the country. While it remains difficult to estimate how serious or benign the impacts might be until more detailed information emerges concerning just how broadly the tariffs will apply, worst-case estimates could increase the cost of a pipeline project by 13.6%. More moderate estimates, however, suggest cost increases are more likely to increase by less than 10% as nearly 17% of all imported line pipe and associated materials in 2016 came from Canada and Mexico – countries the White House has already targeted for tariff exemptions. Further, the President announced plans to exempt numerous other U.S. allies. The landscape for oil and gas pipeline infrastructure projects is unlikely to return to pre-Keystone XL anonymity. While the “keep it in the ground” movement of the environmental activist community has largely failed, these groups have successfully altered their strategy away from preventing oil and natural gas exploration into one that seeks to slow and delay the transportation and logistical assets needed by energy companies ot bring oil and gas to market. While the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) projects that fossil fuels will maintain their status as America’s leading source of energy the dominant fossil fuels, still constituting 80% of America’s total energy consumption in 2040, activists show no sign of adopting more mainstream policies. That means that pipeline proponents will have to engage the public earlier to explain why the continued use of fossil fuels cannot be avoided for another generation. Since that is the case however, it is incumbent upon all of us to ensure that we transport these products the safest way possible. In that regard, pipelines will remain the safest and most ecologically friendly way to transport large volumes of energy supplies.