Although oil has caught up, it was originally natural gas that ignited the U.S. shale revolution that began about a decade ago. Looking forward now, the upside to gas prices seems as small as it has ever been: our Energy Information Administration's National Energy Modeling System projects that U.S. gas production will increasingly outpace demand. That's mostly because the amount of gas that we have at our disposal is really without end. We probably have the largest lowest cost gas resource in the world, and our proven reserves alone were up 5% last year to 341 trillion cubic feet - a 60% leap since 2006. More short-term, EIA has gas production outpacing domestic demand over each of the next two years by about 3 Bcf/d. Most of our new demand potential, however, is in the export market, which isn't factored into that. As the wildcard in our gas market, exports to Mexico and LNG will account for 70-80% of new demand for at least the next five years. According to EIA, LNG exports alone will increase by ~5.5 Bcf/d by the end of 2019 to nearly 9 Bcf/d. So, production will need to rise to the mid-80s Bcf/d level to support this structural increase in consumption.    But ultimately, I would be very careful about underestimating new gas domestic demand in the U.S. It's not commonly reported as such, but be sure to see the U.S. as a "still developing nation:" each year we add 3 million people and $300-400 billion in real GDP. Unlike most of our OECD partners, we face both a population and economic explosion in the years ahead. Gas will continue to make headway in the power and industrial sectors, which respectively account for 34% and 30% of our total gas usage. In fact, gas is now almost 45% of U.S. power generation capacity, and climbing toward 50%. From 2017-2020, we will be installing 80,000 megawatts of new gas capacity, or almost a 20% increase in just a few years with even more coming. The entire country is turning to gas, and new regulations to cut greenhouse gas emissions favor natural gas. The ability of wind and solar power, augmented by battery storage, to displace, not supplement, natural gas, is typically overstated. Additionally, the push for electric vehicles could be the primary factor that reserves our decade long trend of flat power demand. And don't forget that the more gas we produce, the more attractive it becomes to use to generate power. In fact, more manufacturing itself could increase our gas demand via more power and obviously more industrial demand. "Manufacturing in U.S. Expands at Fastest Pace Since May 2004." At 21.7 Bcf/d, U.S. industrial gas demand in 2017 was the highest it has been since 2000, when consumption was assumed to have peaked. Industrial growth could be 60% in the decades ahead. My Forbes colleague Ken Silverstein reports: "As of December 2017, the American Chemistry Council said that 317 projects are either in up-and-running, getting built or on the drawing board and collectively, they are valued at $185 billion." The ongoing pipeline build-out will be strong enough to outweigh new demand and exports, and limit the price increase of rising gas-on-gas competition, particularly important at various hub price points across the country. This year, there are 3,000 miles of gas pipeline coming in the U.S, or about a quarter of the world’s total and more than four times what the U.S. laid in 2012. Production wise, shale gas is now over 60% of all U.S. gas output and will be the source of essentially all new production. Appalachia and Texas will remain the Ruth and Gehrig of our natural gas production complex. Appalachia's Ohio, West Virginia, and Pennsylvania have some key advantages: a massive low cost resource, ample access to fresh water supplies for fracking, and proximate location to high demand metropolitan areas (e.g., Cleveland, Detroit, Columbus, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, NYC, Chicago, Toronto, etc).  Over the next decade, Appalachia's production could surge 66% to over 45 Bcf/d. Yet, the Lone Star State is never to be outdone: "Texas' Permian Basin: An Oil And Natural Gas Production Machine." The ongoing Texan energy boom will be enabled by a pipeline build-out (8 Bcf/d of takeaway capacity proposed) and higher oil prices that equal more associated gas production. In fact, even if gas prices fall to zero or negatives (i.e., producers pay companies to take the gas away), the Permian will still be producing loads of gas because it comes free with oil. By 2025, Permian gas production will more than double to over 20 Bcf/d. EIA tracks 5 or 6 other shale plays that will continue to also grow and remain important secondary sources of gas supply. See these as DiMaggio, Mantle, Jackson, Winfield, Henderson, and Jeter...pretty darn amazing in their own right. Indeed: be careful listening to those telling you about "the end of shale." Remember that these are the very same people that never saw the revolution coming in the first place. 