Is it curtains for tech stocks, and by extension the stock market at large? Probably not. That isn’t to say the overall market, whose surge since the dark days of the Great Recession has been largely propelled by tech, will continue to move up at a clip similar to 2017’s. Just that the bear isn’t at the door. There’s an argument to be made that tech’s current rough patch is temporary. To see why, let’s take a look at the two most recent market crashes resulting from the demise of a hot group of stocks. The Nifty Fifty dominated the go-go 1960s. At long last, investors shook off the caution that had ruled their behavior since the 1929 crash. The economy was booming. And these 50 stocks embodied the era: They either were tech-oriented or catered to burgeoning consumer spending. Polaroid, with its instant photos, hit a price/earnings ratio of 91. McDonald’s, which captured the new fast-food craze, changed hands at an 86 multiple. At a time when the S&P 500 sported a temperate 19 P/E, the Nifty Fifty averaged 42.    Then larger economic forces intervened. Inflation, fed partly by enormous military spending for the Vietnam War, was roaring. And oil prices, boosted by the OPEC embargo and later supply restrictions, fed the price escalation even more. Result: a vicious recession in 1973. The Fifty and stocks overall tanked. Flash forward to the 1990s, a similar time of buoyant economic growth and a new coterie of market darlings, the dot-com stocks. People started flocking to the Internet in a big way in 1995. New companies sprang up that didn’t bother with fusty old notions like profitability. The prevailing term was “new paradigm,” meaning viewer traffic as a measurement of success, rather than earnings. By decade’s end, the tech-tilted Nasdaq Composite had expanded fivefold. The index’s P/E was a dizzying 175. A lot of dot-coms didn’t even have P/Es because they weren’t public, and if they were the number was too high. Companies that weren’t fly-by-night, such as the new AOL-Time Warner with its 217 multiple, looked overpriced. Once again, those pesky larger economic forces came along to spoil things. Some blame Y2K, the mammoth fix that computer systems needed when the calendar turned to 2000 – the tech infrastructure was designed to handle only two digits (99 for 1999), and so would go ker-blooey once the new century dawned -- 2000 would read "1900," and computers would all crash. The vast spending to repair the tech system in time for Y2K was over once 2000 arrived. Whatever the cause, in March of that year, the big tech slide began. As 2000, progressed, economic growth began sliding and a the nation was tumbled into a recession. The Nasdaq Composite ended up losing 70% of its value. Profit-free Pets.com, which had adorable commercials starring a sock puppet and no public enthusiasm for delivery of its pet food, had spectacularly bad timing, going public in February 2000. By the fall, it had declared bankruptcy. Today, though, the situation is not as frothy. The Nasdaq Composite’s P/E is 33 – higher than the historical average (15), to be sure, yet nothing like during the dot-com days. Nasdaq didn’t exist during much of the Nifty Fifty’s ascendancy (the index was launched in 1971, holding a smattering of stocks), but the Fifty carried a higher multiple than the reading now for Nasdaq. Tech is in a stronger position nowadays. In 1999, tech constituted 29% of the S&P 500 and only furnished 13% of its earnings growth. Today, tech claims 25% of the index and provides 23% of the earnings increases. What’s more, by State Street’s reckoning, projected second quarter earnings growth for tech stocks is 22%, versus 17% for the index. The FAANG tech stocks have been the leaders of the current rally, making up some 14% of the market’s value. The difference between them and the dot-com stocks, not to mention some of the more established tech players 20 years ago, is that the FAANGs are increasing earnings and revenue at a decent pace. This group has two with nosebleed-level numbers: Amazon at 235 and Netflix at 236. Google parent Alphabet has a 57 multiple. But Amazon and Google also happen to be pillars of the current economy. And Netflix, while smaller, enjoys enormous popularity. Apple is at 17 and Facebook at 29, hardly astronomical. Meanwhile, the economy is doing well, unlike in 1973 and 2000. Who knows? Maybe Facebook will end up under a regulatory yoke because miscreants have filched its data. And perhaps President Donald Trump’s animosity toward Amazon, due to founder Jeff Bezos’ ownership of the feisty Washington Post, will result in antitrust action against the online retailer. Still, what’s hard to feature is that these giants will fall hard or anytime soon. Some day, a bear market will appear, maybe in two years. All in all, odds are we can party like its 2019. 