Trick question, kind of like Professor (Indiana) Jones saying if you’re looking for truth, try the philosophy department. The term “best” is completely subjective, which doesn’t mean it’s not an important concept, just that different actors would have different definitions. For small oil producing countries, the best price is a high one. For countries with large oil reserves, the best price might be a moderate one. For consumers, low prices are best (conditionally). The question before us now is what do the big oil producing countries like Russia and Saudi Arabia think is the best long-term oil price? (I am deliberately ignoring the question of price “stability” for two reasons. First, stability has become a substitute for ‘desired price level’. When prices decline, producers complain about the lack of stability when what they really mean is the price is lower than they would like. When prices rise, consumers make the same complaint about instability when what they really care about is the level of prices. But also, as I have argued repeatedly, oil is a strategic political commodity but a commodity nonetheless and cannot be expected to be ‘stable’ without major market intervention, such as by the Texas Railroad Commission (and Texas Rangers) in the pre-WWII era.) The elephant in the room is and has been the uncertainty about the impact of prices on the supply/demand balance in the long-run. There is a famous story told about Saudi Oil Minister Yamani speaking at Harvard several decades ago (pre-internet), who, when asked how he carried out long-term planning, replied that he read the morning paper and went to the office to respond to the previous day’s developments. Economists have repeatedly tried to estimate a ‘sustainable’ oil price level with hilarious results. (I won’t say embarrassing because many economists are beyond embarrassment.) At a Stanford meeting in 1980 to compare the projections of computer models of the world oil market, the average price forecast for the year 2000 was $180 (2017 dollars), three and a half times the actual. And OPEC has tried to set and maintain a long-term price path on two occasions in the past. In the late 1970s, they reached an informal agreement that the price should rise at roughly the rate of GDP growth, which would be about 3% per year, which was seen as balancing the market while providing additional revenue but without major dislocation (read: OPEC market share collapse). And then the Iranian Revolution sent oil prices soaring beyond their control, making the target meaningless. Similarly, in the late 1990s, OPEC set a specific price ‘band’ of $22-28, with an automatic quota adjustment whenever prices fell outside the range. It was a great idea, and seemed to be working for a while, but then PDVSA employees went on strike, Gulf War II shut in Iraqi oil production, and the price was off to the races. $28 became a distant dream. Now, the success of the 2016 OPEC/non-OPEC agreement to cut production, reduce global oil inventories, and raise the price has led to suggestions of a longer-term agreement, with the Saudi Crown Prince supposedly saying a 10-20 year agreement was under consideration. But, importantly he said, “We have agreement on the big picture, but not yet on the detail.” And the devil is in the details, as the saying goes. Without question, a Saudi-Russian collaboration would be the most important development since the 1928 Achnacarry Agreement (look it up), when the oil majors agreed to share the market. But that agreement worked because the majors had interlocking investments, especially in the Middle East, so that no cheating could be done without the other companies knowing about it. (The Texas Railroad Commission’s quotas worked because they enforced them with the Texas Rangers.) OPEC, on the other hand, has always relied on the recognition by members that they benefited from cooperation, and that as a last resort, a price war would punish them for straying. (See Venezuela 1998) But the challenge now is that same as described in Paul Eckbo’s 1976 Future of World Oil, namely, trying to set the correct price when you don’t know what the correct price is. Eckbo surveyed a variety of commodity cartels and found that most didn’t last very long because they set the price too high, encouraging both external competition and internal cheating. Any Saudi-Russian collaboration would face the same challenge: avoid empowering shale oil (as the kids would say) and rein in countries like Iraq and Iran which have the potential for significant long-term production increases. Which is not to say the challenge can’t be overcome, but that the prime actors should not dismiss it. In his "60 Minutes" interview, the Crown Prince said his father had taught him to read history. ""If you read the history of a thousand years, you have the experience of a thousand years." Perhaps someone should give President Putin and Crown Prince Salman copies of Eckbo’s book.