Trade wars, interest rate hikes, maybe even a real war. All these news developments may jolt you into action. The stock market often gyrates to them. As a diligent investor, there are ways to deal with headlines. Lewis Walker, a financial planning and investment strategist at Capital Insight Group in Peachtree Corners, Ga., tells us how: Q. How should investors handle headline risk? A. Say you are driving in heavy traffic and your eyes focus on a distraction way up the road. In looking far, you lose track of what’s happening close up just beyond your bumper, and you almost slam into the driver ahead of you. Conversely, you may be so focused on traffic immediately in front of you that you miss a critical turn. Something similar happens when you think about your investment policy. You can be so focused on the short term that you may miss something important to a longer term strategy. You may have a long term strategy, but fail to see the need for short-term corrections or alterations. Q. Could you give us some examples? A. The daily trading day machinations of markets may confuse or entertain, as the case may be, while obscuring key ruminations. For example, on Feb. 15, Kiplinger offered a forecast of inflation at 2.6% for 2018, up from 2.1% in 2017. How do you react? Look for the highest yielding security possible, even though it might not be very safe? The Kiplinger forecast tells you that if you are at a 20% average (not “marginal”) tax bracket, federal and state, your breakeven targeted yield on invested capital must be (2.6/.80=) 3.25%. That’s attainable, without going into dangerous territory. Those at higher average brackets have a higher breakeven rate. “Inflation” increasingly is a front-of-mind consideration in framing investment policy. But you should know what it means for you. Headlines can distract. Forecasters recently opined that America is likely to eclipse Russia as the world’s largest oil producer by 2023. Decreased oil imports have favorably improved macro balance of trade data, while obscuring the fact that sans energy, our balance of trade with many nations, China particularly, continues out of whack. What if forecasts on oil are wrong? What if supplies tighten and prices rise, adding to inflationary pressures? Q. Any signs of that happening? A. A renowned innovator in the U.S. shale oil revolution recently sounded an alarm that American production forecasts are likely to fall short of expectations. Russia and OPEC have been holding back production to boost prices, acknowledging America’s role as a disruptor. Last October, the World Bank opined that oil prices would average $56 a barrel, up from a $53 average in 2018. As of last week, oil stood at $66. The World Bank sees upward pressure on a range of commodity and agricultural prices. With the Federal Reserve raising interest rates, and, now, uncertainty over Donald Trump’s tariff policies as a price pressuring factor, inflation could overshoot forecasts. We saw that in spades in the 1970s. Q. So things that happen in the short term can affect us in the long term. How can we deal with that? A. The goal of saving and investing in the short term is flexibility to run your life with minimal debt and ability to meet obligations and ride out emergencies and down markets. Long term, retirement, for example, the goal ultimately is positive cash flow in excess of inflation and taxation, with reserves to meet other goals such as fun, purpose, legacy and peace of mind. With the American bull market in stocks entering a 10th year, blend Pollyanna-ish forecasts with a dose of skepticism. Don’t be distracted by the focus on a single index like the S&P 500 or Dow. Diversification counts in the long run. One money manager with a track record of beating indexes over time, offers a global strategy with a long-term target allocation as follows: U.S. large stock, 15%; U.S. small stock, 45%; international large stock, 10%; international small stock, 10%; emerging markets stock, 15%; real estate, 5%. Does that reflect the manager’s current allocation? Not exactly. Some percentages have been trimmed and a position in U.S. high quality bonds added to dampen volatility. What does your portfolio look like? The foregoing is offered not as a recommendation, but as an example of diversification within a flexible framework. The policy you should follow must be tailored to your overall situation, time frames, risk posture, tax sensitivity, etc. Q. How should we regard forecasts? A. Forecasts are mere theories. Reality will overshoot sometimes, undershoot sometimes, but consistently be a source of vexation. In the face of uncertainty, ample short-term liquidity is important, even if you are losing money net of inflation and taxation. Inflation- and tax-hedges are part of longer term strategies and often are a mix of liquid, semi-liquid and non-liquid holdings, under the umbrella of comprehensive financial and estate planning. Amid the recent market turbulence, remember: It’s always darkest before the dawn, even as the sun comes up an hour later. 