As we move into the second quarter of 2018, the situation for the oil and gas industry - especially for oil - is as bullish as at any time since 2013. Here are some of the major elements that are combining to create the current positive environment: The domestic rig count appears to have stabilized - The Baker Hughes U.S. rig count rose steadily throughout the first quarter, though at a significantly less-rapid pace than it did during the same quarter of 2017. Altogether, the Baker Hughes count is up 69 rigs for the year, as compared to an increase of 159 U.S. rigs during Q1 2017. For March, the Baker Hughes count rose by just 12 rigs overall, and was down by 2 during the month's final week. Meanwhile, the DrillingInfo daily rig count also appears to have leveled off during the last week of March, sitting at 1075 as the quarter came to a close. None of this is surprising, as companies have basically gotten their drilling programs fully in place for the first half of the year. We could still see a slight increase in the number of rigs during April and into May, but any changes to the rig count for the rest of the year will be largely dependent on what the crude price does. Inventories are falling, and risk of disruption is rising - Banks are raising their price forecasts for the remainder of 2018, as falling inventories in the U.S. and other parts of the globe indicate the overall market has become balanced between supply and demand. The Wall Street Journal also reports that analysts now expect President Donald Trump, on the advice from new National Security Advisor John Bolton, to cancel the Obama executive agreement with Iran, a move that could result in significant supply disruption from the Islamic State. Saudi Arabia and Russia are talking about about a long-term deal to manage oil markets - One of the main reasons for the falling crude inventories is the high degree of compliance by OPEC nations and Russia with their 15 month-old export limitation agreement. While the parties will meet in June to discuss extending that deal into and perhaps throughout 2019, leaders in Saudi Arabia and Russia are looking to work an even longer deal among themselves. During his recent visit to the United States, Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman told Reuters that his country is engaged in ongoing talks with Russia to enter into a longer-term alliance. “We are working to shift from a year-to-year agreement to a 10 to 20 year agreement,” the crown prince said, “We have agreement on the big picture, but not yet on the detail.” To this point, the OPEC/Russia deal has proven to be an extraordinary success. This reduction in overall exports has played the lion's share in drying up what had been a multi-million barrel per day surplus of global crude, and as of the end of March, had achieved the plan's initial target Brent crude price of $70/bbl almost to the penny. A continuation of this agreement into 2019 and possibly beyond gives U.S. producers an enhanced ability to plan their businesses around fairly robust and stable crude prices for the first time in half a decade. Global demand remains strong - In mid-March, OPEC revised its global demand forecast upwards to an estimated 1.6 million barrels of oil per day, as the global economy continues its strong growth performance. While the U.S. Energy Information Administration continues to forecast rising record domestic production, the pace of that increase is most likely going to begin to level off along with the rig count. All in all, the needed market factors are in place for a strong and stable U.S. crude oil situation for the rest of 2018. The last time we were able to make that claim with any degree of confidence was in 2013. Of course, things seldom remain strong and stable for very long in the oil and gas world, so U.S. producers, pipeliners, refiners and exporters should enjoy the current situation while it lasts. 