The general public took note of crypto late in the fourth quarter of last year when Bitcoin lept from under $5,000 a token toward $20,000 before falling back under $10,000 in 2018, where it remains as of this post. Early this year, Ethereum climbed over $1,000 a token before dropping back under $400, where it started its run last fall. Ripple rocketed to $3 shortly after the new year, before falling back to $0.50 a token. To further dampen the crypto markets, the SEC’s Cyber Unit has taken enforcement actions against issuers of crypto assets by halting Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs) or freezing the proceeds raised. Subpoenas for information from crypto exchanges and other industry participants appear to be leading toward a broad crackdown on token issuers who do not either register crypto assets as securities or issue under a valid exemption from registration. It might seem from these data points that crypto was the world’s briefest bubble, a cycle spanning only a few months of hype, hysteria and despair. Look closer, and you’ll see the seeds of a global transformation that will touch every industry, market and participant, with energy at the epicenter of disruption. Storing Energy On The Blockchain As Value A few years ago, Richard Morgan of Beloit, Wisconsin, entered his home address and utility bill information on Geostellar, my solar energy platform, to determine the viability of his home for solar energy. His home was under a good bit of shade, but he consumed an enormous amount of electricity mining bitcoin, and he wanted to see if we could shave some cost from his bills. Even a small reduction would save him a lot of money and increase his profits. Since then, crypto mining has migrated out of the home or dorm room to massive processing farms adjacent to multi-megawatt solar installations, areas with cheap hydro or geothermal generation, or small towns with low municipal electricity rates. In some cases, crypto mining has been a boon to U.S. generators and utilities, which are regaining baseload lost to the migration of manufacturing overseas. In other cases, the rapid spike in consumption has stressed the local utility grids to the point that Plattsburg, New York, has placed a moratorium on new bitcoin mining. The process of generating crypto assets, known as “mining,” is enormously energy intensive. Cryptocurrencies essentially transform energy into value. According to the Digiconomist Bitcoin Energy Consumption Index, global Bitcoin mining currently consumes about 43.1 TWhs of electricity a year, about the same amount as the country of Peru. At 361 kWhs per transaction, a single trade could power 12.21 homes for a day, and almost four million homes could be powered by the electricity Bitcoin consumes. These staggering numbers are the natural result of the crypto asset value creation process on the blockchain — a decentralized ledger system that maintains records without a trusted or recognized authority. The term “blockchain” comes from the fact that the information on all transactions is stored in “blocks” of data on a “chain” that includes all previous blocks of data. This makes the total record immutable (unchangeable) and trustless (in that each participant maintains its own set of confirmed and unconfirmed transactions and achieves consensus through a protocol rather than a central reconciling authority such as a bank, transfer agent or clearinghouse). The production of new coins through mining and the custody of the coins throughout a series of transactions is maintained by a network of computers that anyone can join if they choose to run software that solves the complex cryptographic puzzles necessary to assure the uniqueness and individual provenance of the coins. As the coins become more valuable and demand increases, more miners add more computing resources to the network to produce more coins. Because the production of many cryptocurrency tokens is limited in the total number that can be generated or the pace at which they are added to the network, the additional resources added are competing with one another to produce valid blocks for the chain to accept by consensus. Invalid blocks are discarded, like losing bingo cards or lottery tickets. Now, rather than fielding requests for information about reducing electricity costs for basement mining systems, we’re receiving queries from large mining concerns about the best areas to develop multi-megawatt solar-powered crypto facilities. Removing The Middleman By Replacing Authority With Consensus John Gilmore, a co-founder of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, once said, “The Net interprets censorship as damage and routes around it.” A more recent corollary could be that “the blockchain views claims of authority skeptically, and establishes consensus.” Our current energy markets, for electricity, oil and natural gas, are based on centralized claims of mineral rights ownership, generation agreements and distribution monopolies supported by institutional brokers and a robust regulatory regimen from local, state and federal authorities. In June, I traveled to Plano, Texas for the 2017 Mick Energy Symposium, a conference of securities dealers and issuers representing primarily oil and gas interests. Mick Law, the sponsor, is an independent third-party due diligence firm that validates the claims of companies so that the securities they issue can be sold by dealers. Dealers like to sell these securities because they can earn massive commissions, rather than the few basis points they would earn selling public company stocks and bonds. Scattered among the presentations at the Mick Energy Symposium from a dozen oil and gas companies, a solar tax equity fund, a ethanol-to-jet-fuel conversion science project and Geostellar, my solar energy platform, were panels and speakers designed to pump up the securities dealers and present a bullish view of the industry and opportunity in oil and gas. The first speaker was Dan Steffens, President & Founder of the Energy Prospectus Group, a networking group in the oil and gas industry. In sum, Dan's pitch was that it's good to invest at the bottom, and that oil and gas prices can only go up. He stated that oil and gas are critical to our standard of living, and had to return to a price that would attract the capital to develop the resources we need through exploration, extraction and delivery. According to Dan, Exxon is projecting $11 trillion of capital will be required to meet the oil needs of the world, based on the billions of people entering the middle class in China, India and other expanding economies. Sure, electric cars and renewable energy will be a part of the pie, but the whole pie is growing and oil and gas will always be a big part of it. There's got to be economic return to meet those capital needs, and if somebody's going to make commissions on raising that development money, it might as well be the securities dealers in the room. OPEC was also on Dan's mind. The purpose of OPEC is to stabilize oil prices around the world. $20 a barrel is worse for the OPEC member countries than for anyone else. If they don't do their job raising oil prices, there go the parties in Vienna. As someone raised in the gas crisis of the '70s, hearing that OPEC will be the savior of the domestic oil and gas industry and the retail investors represented by the securities dealers in the room was unnerving at best. It also shifted my perspective on the independent American wildcatter. One of the issuers pitching for investment money was John Henry Oil Corporation, a third generation driller in North Central Tennessee. Their motto, "An American Independent with a Strong Heritage and a Strong Future" belied the interdependence of their operations with the Libyan, Saudi, Iraqi, Angolan and Venezuelan ministers partying in Vienna. When the oil and gas bubble popped in 2015, it hurt a lot of people. Venezuelans are starving, Appalachians and North Dakotans lost high paying jobs in the Marcellus and Bakken Shale Plays and retail investors lost significant holdings. Nick was fortunate. While he had reviewed many oil and gas business plans, he passed on most of them and only had one client that suffered significant losses. One securities dealer I spoke with avoids representing oil and gas deals simply because it is "seldom that the retail investor coming into oil and gas does very well." There are "a lot of ways for money to be wasted," he told me. When expenses show up, like a drill bit twisted off in a hole, they will be marked up by the company so they don't have to come out of pocket for anything. With markups from 20% to 35%, the retail investor is already paying "more than it actually costs to drill and complete the well." In addition, you've got a load of about 15% to 20% all-in, which includes 10% to 12% commissions to the securities dealers, offering and organizational expense of 1% or 2% and marketing costs to raise the capital, such as the Mick conference we were attending, which cost securities issuers $12,000 for a 20-minute slot to present. According to this dealer, oil and gas have never been good to retail investors. In the late 1990s through the 2000s, a retail investor stood a good chance of getting their capital back, but since oil prices plummeted in 2015, most deals haven't turned out very well. To continue raising funds, the industry has shifted to a tax program model, where 100% of the Intangible Drilling Costs (IDCs) go to the investors, giving them a write-off that could represent almost 60% of the invested capital if the investor is in a 39% tax bracket. Even with a significantly reduced risk, and coverage on the securities moving from two to three wells a decade ago to 20 to 40 wells today, chances of making a decent return are low. Electricity markets are no different. Developers raise capital to build power plants, sell the energy to utilities, and then count on the public utility commissions to keep rates high enough for all parties to make a profit. Rates keep going up at an average of almost 5% a year, even through feedstock costs have dropped and demand has fallen. The wholesale and retail energy markets have been based on information asymmetry, where brokers and dealers of stocks, bonds and commodities are closer to the source of production than the consumers and retail investors. The blockchain is changing all that. A technology known as “smart contracts,” a flexible form of crypto asset, or token, can manage complex transactions beyond the transfer of monetary value. Through customized protocols on the Ethereum blockchain, smart contracts can transmit additional information directly between developers, generators, distributors, investors and consumers with full transparency and without middlemen. A few examples of smart contracts in the energy market include the following: In each of these cases, ownership, energy rights and cash flows are managed directly on the blockchain. The blockchain, as distributed ledger, records agreements and transactions with each participating system forming a consensus about the ownership and rights associated with the power capacity, electricity for consumption or reserves. Ultimately, every aspect of the energy industry can be tokenized for the blockchain, cutting out the middlemen, increasing operational efficiency and improving the stability of markets through transparency between supply and demand. Replacing Debt And Equity With Security Tokens The solar industry has seen some massive failures among developers, including SunEdison, OneRoof Energy and Sungevity. While no corporate meltdown can be pegged to a single cause, access to capital on the right terms at the right time is critical in navigating a liquidity crunch without lapsing into insolvency. In the past, companies had only two options when raising capital: equity and debt instruments. Both equity and debt have long histories and are clearly defined by the SEC. In the energy industry, equity capital has been raised primarily for operational working capital and debt for project development. The experience of my company, Geostellar, was somewhat typical. We had raised several rounds of equity capital by issuing preferred stock, with such features as anti-dilution provisions, liquidation preferences and pro-rata investment rights. We leveraged the equity capital with debt financing, which held a security interest in the assets such as project materials, cashflow and intellectual property. In certain circumstances, the interests of equity holders, debt holders and the company itself can become misaligned, and a restructuring becomes necessary. The cause of the misalignment is generally rooted in the securities themselves. Equity holders desire liquidity and “asymmetrical returns,” which can put pressure on companies to achieve growth at all costs. Equity holders seek “asymmetrical returns,” meaning that upside gains are more important than downside protection. Debt holders seek fixed income returns in the form of steady monthly payments, preferring a conservative approaches to growth that prioritizes getting paid back their principal with interest over returns at high multiples. Sometimes the restructuring and re-alignment of interests can happen through a work-out, and sometimes protection under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code is required. In our case, as with Sungevity and SunEdison, we were unable to work out a restructuring out of court, so resorted to Chapter 11. It appears OneRoof is going directly to some form of liquidation, rather than working through a restructuring. Security tokens hold the promise of true cross-optimization between the needs of the company and the needs of investors. Unlike debt and equity securities, which are legal agreements written in plain language, security tokens are software. They are smart contracts that can execute on the blockchain according to the rules embodied in the software code. Rather than considered equity or debt instruments, the smart contracts can be qualified by the SEC as investment contracts, much like the securities defined by the Supreme Court in "SEC v Howey," now known as the "Howey Test." Investment contracts embodied in security tokens have a very wide range of performance characteristics, embodying aspects of debt such as regular monetary distributions as well as aspects of equity such as liquidity and value growth. By offering security tokens under exemptions from registration provided under the JOBS Act — such as Regulation Crowdfunding, which allows companies to raise $1.07 million a year from the general public; Reg D 506 (c) general solicitation, which allows companies to raise an unlimited amount from accredited investors; and Reg A+, which allows companies to raise up to $50 million a year from the general public — companies can now become fully capitalized for both operations and project development while maintaining alignment with investor interests. While working our way through a restructuring under Chapter 11 with Geostellar, we’re building a platform called Indeco that helps companies capitalize project development in a compliant manner through security token offerings. We believe that the combination of the JOBs Act, the blockchain and renewable energy promises to offer a proliferation of new energy options, without the traditional brokers and middlemen, at a lower cost to consumers around the world. 