Since the 2015 energy sector bear market, master limited partnerships (MLP) and other energy infrastructure/midstream services stocks have not been able to sustain a recovery. Tim Plaehn, editor of The Dividend Hunter, explores why investors may be interested in this sector for income and total returns in the wake of negative news. Twice since the February 2016 bottom the energy infrastructure stocks have staged meaningful recoveries , only to roll over and fall sharply. Currently, the Alerian MLP Infrastructure Index is down 22% from the recent January 23, 2018 peak, and 31% below the February 2017 top. The question is: what it will take to again get investors interested in this sector for income and total returns? Despite all the reasons from the financial news media, it will take investors who want to buy and own for MLPs and related company values to move higher. A string of negative news items, often driven by sensational headlines, are one reason investors continue to stay away from MLPs. On March 15, a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) ruling sent the MLP and energy infrastructure stocks to a very sharp drop. The news release caused an immediate 10% drop in the MLP indexes. Prices recovered that day to close at a 5% decline. Here is the Bloomberg headline to which I attribute the scare: Pipeline Stocks Plunge After FERC Kills Key Income-Tax Allowance Analysis of the FERC release shows that the ruling has a very narrow application in the energy infrastructure sector. However, MLP values have not recovered and continue to trend lower since the date of the ruling. The FERC ruling only applies to interstate natural gas pipelines owned by MLPs using the specific “cost of service” rate-setting method. This is just one of several methods the FERC allows, and only a small percentage of pipelines use the cost of service method. The ruling does not apply to intrastate pipelines, crude oil and refined product pipelines, and all the other services provided by midstream energy companies. Since the FERC press release, the major MLPs have released their own statements stating the effects on their businesses. Most report no meaningful change to business prospects. Here is how large-cap MLP Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P. explains the effect of the FERC ruling on its business: “Although Magellan is organized as an MLP, it does not have cost-of-service rates that would be directly impacted by this policy change. Rather, the rates on approximately 40% of the shipments on Magellan’s refined products pipeline system are regulated by the FERC primarily through an index methodology. As an alternative to cost-of-service or index-based rates, interstate pipeline companies may establish rates by obtaining authority to charge market-based rates in competitive markets or by negotiation with unaffiliated shippers. Approximately 60% of Magellan’s refined products pipeline system’s markets are either subject to regulations by the related state or approved for market-based rates by the FERC. In addition, most of the tariffs on Magellan’s crude oil pipelines are established by negotiated rates that generally provide for annual adjustments in line with changes in the FERC index, subject to certain modifications.” The other cloud in the minds of investors hanging over MLPs is the potential for additional consolidation or “simplification” corporate actions between individual MLPs and their general partner sponsors. The traditional partnership agreement has the MLP paying incentive distribution rights –IDRs—to the general partner that increase along with the distributions paid to LP unit investors. As an MLP grows and distributions rise, the IDR payments become a large and rapidly growing revenue stream for the general partner. During the good times for MLPs, when growth projects paid attractive returns and MLP yields were much lower, the IDR payments had negligible effect on an MLP’s ability to continue to grow. In the current environment of low MLP values, which means high current yields, the added drag from IDRs makes it difficult to buy or develop assets that are accretive to cash flow when funded with new MLP unit issuance. Slowing EBITDA growth means that these companies cannot continue to use the debt markets as a source of capital. For a lot of MLPs to resume growth, the basic partnership structure needs to change. Over the past two years, a range of steps have been undertaken by various MLPs to reduce the IDR burden. One method has been for the corporate sponsor to absorb the MLP in a merger. This was the action taken by Kinder Morgan and ONEOK, Inc. Another strategy has been to retire the IDRs by purchasing the rights with newly created LP units. This has been the chosen method for companies like Plains All American Pipelines LP and Andeavor Logistics LP. This move eliminates the IDR payments which grow faster than LP distributions, but greatly increases the number of outstanding LP units. Many of these simplification maneuvers have resulted in actual or “stealth” distribution reductions for investors holding the MLP units. The few best cases have left MLP investors without a distribution cut, but a severe flattening of distribution growth compared to past history. These lead to another reason investors are staying away from MLPs: The fear of the next shoe to drop. Large-cap MLP Energy Transfer Partners LP continues to trade at a 13% yield on fears that a “simplification” in the Energy Transfer family of companies will produce a distribution cut. Williams Partners LP is another MLP where Wall Street and the financial media expect that sponsor Williams Companies will make a move to absorb the MLP. The new corporate tax rules and rates have reduced the tax advantages of the publicly traded partnership structure. Also, individual investors are less willing to own IRS Schedule K-1 reporting investments when values are falling, and unit value growth prospects are hard to envision. When MLPs were generating attractive total returns, investors are willing to tolerate the extra tax-time work of K-1 investments. When those investments are losing money, fewer investors want to also mess with K-1s. Hidden behind these reported negative factors for the MLP sector is the big picture that fundamentals across the sector have turned positive and continue to improve. Here are some of the financial steps and effects occurring in the MLP space. These factors show that despite the scary headlines covering the MLP and energy midstream sectors, business fundamentals are in good shape and improving. These are companies that provide necessary support and services to crude oil and natural gas production, refineries, utilities, manufacturers that uses natural gas and natural gas liquids as raw materials, and the growing oil and LNG export businesses. The U.S. is the world’s leading producer of natural gas and close to becoming the top producer of crude oil. The energy sector will continue to need expanded midstream services including pipelines, processing facilities, storage and terminals. This is a core economic fundamental that will drive growth for the energy midstream companies. What we have here is the classic value investment case of an industry with good fundamentals that is disliked by the investing public. I again ask the question of what will it take to bring investors back into the sector? My logical brain says that strong quarterly earnings reports and growing distributions will eventually turn the tide. The realistic side notes that the improvements in the sector have been ongoing for several quarters and MLP values have continued to fall. It seems that sensational news headlines and investor fears continue to overpower the underlying fundamentals. In a pure auction market like the stock exchanges, unit values will not go up until investors want to again own MLPs. To be an investor in this sector, you must have the belief that at some point fundamentals will win out and this out-of-favor sector will move back into favor. Putting a time frame on that is difficult. My hope as an investor in the sector is that it will happen in 2018. The good news is that the MLPs and midstream energy companies have distribution rates that result in very attractive current yields. You will get paid while waiting for the sector to restart an upward value trend. Here are three midstream energy sector ETFs to consider: ALPS Alerian MLP ETF is the largest ETF tracking the Alerian MLP Infrastructure Index. Current yield is 8.7%. InfraCap MLP ETF is an actively managed ETF that uses the Alerian MLP Index component list as its basis for portfolio investments. The fund can and does own related corporate shares and also sells call options on the portfolio to boost current income. InfraCap pays monthly dividends and currently yields 18%. American Energy Independence ETF tracks the American Energy Independence Index which includes U.S. and Canadian energy infrastructure companies, MLPs and General Partners of MLPs. The index limits K-1 investments to less than 25%, which gives the fund a tax advantage over ETFs that have a higher percentage in MLPs. This ETF covers the case that MLPs are a dying business structure, which could lead to the demise of MLP focused funds. American Energy Independence launched in December 2017 and does not have a track record or much in the way of assets. Disclosure: I have holdings in InfraCap MLP ETF and American Energy Independence ETF. Tim Plaehn is a a frequent MoneyShow.com contributor. You can read Tim's latest commentary on REITs with Rising Payouts here. 