Given all the negative headlines about Russia, and the real threat of a proxy war against them in Syria following yet another bombing run by the U.S., why on Earth would anyone want to invest in Russia? It may be time to just lighten up, or sell out of anything Russian. With more sanctions coming, Russia is a hard sell even for emerging market bulls who like cheap stocks. "We are still there, but we are neutral on it," says Michael Reynal, an emerging markets fund manager at Sophus Capital in Des Moines. "Why would you bother with Russia anymore? The answer is a combination of profitability in Russian private sector companies, the long-term improvement story of the Russian consumer is still valid, plus it is unclear to me at least how long this political crisis lasts." Russian financials and energy companies have been sanctioned since July 2014. The stocks are still okay to own. It's just that corporations cannot interact with them the way they used to on certain matters.    For instance, ExxonMobil can no longer drill for hydrocarbons in the Kara Sea with its partner Rosneft. Not only are U.S. companies banned from doing business with them in Russia, but they are now banned from doing business with them worldwide, depending on the activity. Russian banks cannot tap European or American banks for cheaper credit lines. Last year, the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, owned by Gazprom and a handful of European partners that include Royal Dutch Shell, got whacked with sanctions. It is up to Treasury to enforce them, but the message is clear: watch out when doing business with the Russians, you could lose your shirt. While Washington ostracizes, Wall Street sells anything with a Russian attached to it. Even the private tech sector firms untouched by sanctions, like Yandex, all fell by more than 10% last week. Rumors of proxy wars are enough to weaken the ruble, and that has a direct impact on shareholders of Russian companies. The VanEck Russia (RSX) and the relative sanction free VanEck Russia Small Cap (RSXJ) are down year-to-date. Both ETFs are underperforming all of their BRIC counterparts, as well as the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, their benchmark. Over the last 12 months, investing in Russia has been a dud move. RSXJ is down nearly 6%. RSX is up, but just by 2%. The next "worst" BRIC is the Wisdom Tree India (EPI) ETF, up 9.57% over the last 12 months. See: A Bad Year For Russian Billionaires -- Forbes Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, the unit that oversees sanctions enforcement, will likely remain constrained by the financial and political repercussions of blocking a major Russian firm like Gazprom. But a major escalation in tensions would change that. These tensions can flip on a dime. The expansive authority provided by the latest executive order signed by Trump suggests that virtually anyone of prominence in Russia can become a target. Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska is a case in point. Shareholders of Deripaska's En+Group, listed in London, and his aluminum company Rusal, listed in Hong Kong, know the risks of association well. Their holdings in those two companies are down over 50% in the last month. Most of the slide happened last week. See: How Russia May Try To Save Oleg Deripaska From Sanctions -- Reuters Russian analysts have tried to downplay the panic that occurred in the market on Monday, the first trading day after the sanctions were announced. Russian stocks have not recovered and surely will not do so today. RSX is down 9.64% since and opened lower on Monday before recovering in the mid-afternoon hours. The ruble weakened last Monday, hitting more than 65 rubles to the dollar on April 11 before settling stronger at 62.12 on Friday. It strengthened to 61.14 on Monday thanks in part to a stronger emerging market day overall, and the notion that Russia has no plans to retaliate militarily for attacks on Syria. If there are more nasty Russia headlines to come however, politics can push the ruble into a new, permanent trend of plus-60 to the dollar. The weaker ruble boosts inflationary risks, negatively affects real income and consumption, and could force the central bank to hike interest rates. Russia's economy would take the hit many Putin haters are hoping for. BCS Global Markets in Moscow said they doubt this worst case scenario comes to pass. Under a worse case scenario, a weaker ruble hurts economic growth. Consumption and investment would suffer. Russia's economy is only expected to grow by 1.8% this year, making it one of the weaker emerging markets out there already. Bob Dylan once sang, “Something is happening here, but you don’t know what it is, do you, Mr. Jones?” That’s what it felt like last week for Russia investors, says Arjun Divecha, head of GMO’s emerging markets equity team. New sanctions and a chemical weapons attack in Syria that Trump blamed partially on Putin saw Russian securities fall to circuit breaker levels of 10% last Monday. It was a much larger move than the market is used to in one day.  The market is aware of the risk of a major blowup with Russia, possibly taking the form of Iran or North Korea-style sanctions. That risk has dramatically increased since Trump ordered his strike on three Syrian installments outside Damascus believed to be chemical weapons research and development labs. "We don’t buy it," says Divecha. "Our Washington sources tell us that the new sanctions, and their timing, were a complete surprise to everyone in Congress and that this was purely a White House operation. Given the fact that Oleg Deripaska (connected to the indicted Paul Manafort) and the companies he controls were the primary targets, one might draw a conclusion that there’s a political dimension to this. If the intent was to hurt Russia economically, sanctioning companies such as Gazprom and Sberbank would have had a much more profound impact," he says. "Our sources in Moscow suggest a similar view." Trump is the Russian wild card. The president could say something on Twitter at a moment's notice, triggering a sell-off: "Gazprom, you're next!" Or "We might have to go after Russian banks in the U.S.!" or "One way to stop Russian support in Syria is to ban Americans from owning Russian bonds. That'll show them!" Maybe one of them has three exclamation marks and a word or two in all caps. Nobody knows. If markets like certainty, or some semblance thereof, Russia does not deliver on that end. For the political junkie in the market, the kind of investor that likes to think about big pictures and political chess matches, Russia is once again involved in the old Great Game. What is more important for Russia is its proximity to China. China is making inroads into Russia's old Soviet 'Stans and smaller Soviet states from Kazakhstan to Azerbaijan and Georgia. Its One Belt One Road Initiative has China placing itself in the Great Game, a geopolitical chess match that was once played between the Russians and the British Empire. The countries of Central Asia are getting money, jobs and infrastructure from the Chinese, not from the British, not from the Americans, and not really from the Russians either. If the Russians side with the Chinese, things might work out well for them. Russia has the resources. China has the money, but it needs the resources and the resource know-how (which it can just as easily get from the U.S.). Russia's long-term growth outlook is more dependent on its Central Asian development deals with the Chinese. That's Russia's future. Europe will side with the U.S. and slowly move away from Russia as a major source of natural gas. Russia would be wiser to tag-team Central Asian development with China or develop its raw materials expertise in big countries still friendly to Moscow, like Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. If Russia can weather this storm, it may come out of the crisis in one piece. It's done so before. For diehard emerging market investors who think long-term and love to pay flea market prices for good companies, Russia might be worth the risk. "We'd be underweight Russia versus the world," says Murray Gunn, head of global research at Elliot Wave International, a market forecasting firm. Last Friday, they gave a bearish scenario on Russia but do not think it is due to sanctions. They forecast more pain and do not rule out sideways trading in Russian stocks. "For long-term investors, now could actually be an opportune time to start thinking about Russia," he says. According to Elliot Wave, the next move down will be the one that ushers in a long-term Russian bear market. 