Tariffs aren't the same as sanctions. Not even close. To think so, would be to equate legal products such as beer with illicit drugs such as heroin. Neither does the increase in some tariffs mean we are in a trade war. To think that, then you'd have to believe a lover's tiff is equivalent to dropping 1,000 tons of napalm on a village. It isn't of course. Here's what you need to know. How Tariffs Work Tariffs are merely taxes on imports. China's move to slap tariffs on U.S. corn means that anyone in China who wants to import U.S. corn must now pay more for the grain.    To be clear, this doesn't mean that U.S. corn is banned. Neither does it say that buyers of U.S. corn will be visited by the Chinese security services for making such purchases. It means that the transactions will cost more for Chinese buyers. That will likely mean that U.S. farmers will have fewer Chinese buyers for corn. This is typical behavior in business. Why buy a higher priced grain when you can get the same at a lower (without tariff) price from another country? That is indeed the case with corn. But will it change what the U.S sells overall? Or the price? Probably not. "China can choose to buy corn from other producers," says David Ranson, director of research at financial research firm HCWE & Co. "I think the U.S. will continue to sell corn on nearly the same scale as before." China doesn't import much corn at all. It's around 4 million metric tons this year, according to data from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Compare that to a global market of corn exports which totals 156 million tons. In this instance, expect China to buy from other leading exporters such as Ukraine, Brazil or Argentina. And U.S. sellers will find new buyers. Overall these China-U.S. tariffs will change none of the supply-demand balance for corn in the world market. Because the supply-demand balance will not get materially altered, then neither will global prices. At least they won't significantly anyway. Similar is true of China's tariffs on U.S. soybeans. The Chinese will buy from other countries, and the U.S. will sell to other countries. It's not a trade war. Just because the U.S. and China are going at it like cats and dogs, doesn't mean we are in a trade war. At least we aren't yet. Other countries have not joined the tit-for-tat tariff moves from each side. This is a contrast with what happened in the 1930s which is the period that most people reference when they talk about trade wars. At that time, the U.S. introduced tariffs on imports of thousands of agricultural and manufactured imports. It wasn't a case of the U.S. acting against just one country. The tariffs applied to the rest of the world, including Canada, America's closest trading partner. Of course, there was retaliation from other major economies. And both Britain and Canada forged trade links elsewhere in the world. That was a real trade war, and it frequently gets credited with pushing the globe further into an economic malaise that became known as the Great Depression. The reason is simple. When all the major trading countries hit each other with tariffs, then the overall amount of trade falls, and so every country suffers from a drop in business. It should be obvious that such a thing hasn't happened so far. Sanctions are in a different league. Sanctions are not taxes. If you break U.S. sanctions, then you'll be in trouble with the U.S. government. There's now much talk inside Washington about whether the U.S. will slap sanctions on Iran and so ban the sale of that country's oil. If that happens, and it seems likely, then it would be illegal for U.S. companies and U.S. people to buy Iranian crude oil. It will also affect many other parties as well.   