German companies like BASF and Wintershall may be successful at lobbying their government to keep the new Russian pipeline going, despite opposition from Washington. Such are the worries being made behind closed doors within the state owned Central and East European (CEE) gas companies that are no fans of Russia's Gazprom. On April 10, someone leaked the Statement of Objections against Gazprom from the European Union's competition authority known as the Directorate-General for Competition (DG Comp). The leaked document was a 270-page report of abuse cases filed by nearly every Gazprom partner in eastern Europe, including Poland where the news first broke last week. Some of the English language version of the report was heavily redacted. To the outside observer, much of this report is just complex, insider baseball. But to Washington, the latest leak is helpful to its cause of presenting itself as a viable alternative to the controversial Nord Stream 2 pipeline, and to Russian gas in particular. Nord Stream 2 was sanctioned last August as part of the U.S. sanction policy designed to protect Ukraine.    BASF and Wintershall, along with OMV of Austria and Shell Oil are all partners in the sanctioned Nord Stream 2 pipeline. The pipeline sits alongside the existing Nord Stream line, causing Ukraine to cry foul. Ukraine, once a major transit route of Russian gas into Europe, says the pipeline is a political stranglehold on their economy as it would cut them out of lucrative gas transit fees their energy sector has relied on for years. During his question and answer session with Congress this week, Secretary of State-designate Mike Pompeo responded to a question about energy security in Europe. He singled out Nord Stream 2, saying he wanted to "make sure that there are alternatives there that are in the West’s best interest and not in Vladimir Putin’s best interest." The leaked document makes the case that Gazprom is more of a political tool of Russian foreign policy than a commercial gas company. The report questions some delivery contracts and says Gazprom is often used to apply political pressure. As Gazprom is responsible for nearly a third of all of Germany's foreign gas supply, and because Germany has two big companies with money on the line with Gazprom projects, some believe Brussels is ready to let Gazprom off the hook from disputes with at least five countries. Until these leaks came out. With the leaks, Germany could easily find itself as part of London and Washington's new favorite narrative: you're either with us...or you're with Putin. Prior to the April 10th leak, which has made the rounds in local papers in Poland and in the business pages of The Telegraph last Thursday, the proposed settlement of claims between Gazprom and partners required only slight changes from the Russian natural gas exporter. A number of CEE governments, including Naftogaz of Ukraine, sent contract dispute claims to DG Comp last year. Due to Europe's reliance on Russian gas, the authorities have been softer in their dealings with Gazprom, some state energy firms believe. Their reactions to complaints against the gas giant, whose CEO Alexei Miller was sanctioned on April 6 (Gazprom is already sanctioned) stands in contrast to Washington's harsher treatment of the Russian company. Moreover, it is also different to how DG Comp has treated U.S. tech companies like Google when they are found to run afoul of EU fair competition rules. "We heard rumors that these leaks have not occurred by chance," said one source who could not be quoted on the record. "DG Comp is said to be pressured by some high-ranking German officials to make a soft deal with Gazprom so they can start building the new Nord Stream 2 pipeline." 