The reversal on Friday afternoon diminished the stock market’s weekly gains, as traders feared military action or another cabinet shakeup over the weekend. The recent American airstrikes on Syria seem to have been limited, however, and so far there has not been any response from Russia or Iran. The selling in the bank stocks, like J.P. Morgan Chase (JPM) and Citigroup (C), despite beating their earnings estimates, did not help the markets’s tone. The volume was heavy, but the SPDR S&P Bank ETF (KBE) is still 1.8% above its recent low. The hourly chart clearly shows that the pattern of high volatility is still intact, as a strong close one day was often followed by a decline the next day. Even though the S&P 500 was up 2% for the week, it is still 7.4% below its record closing high. The Dow Transports and small-cap Russell 2000 did better, up 2.2% and 2.4% respectively. On the NYSE, 1854 stocks advanced while 1212 declined. The potential for new market-shaking news over the weekend was likely the catalyst for the market’s weak close on Friday. This uncertainty is not surprising, as so far in 2018, the S&P has had nine positive weekly closes and six lower closes. The weekly chart of the NYSE Composite shows that it again tested the declining 20-week EMA at 12,627, but was unable to close above it. This turns the focus on the lower boundary of the recent trading range in the 12,000-area. There is a strong band of support in the 11,600-700 area. The upper boundary of the nine-week range is in the 13,050 area. The weekly NYSE advance/decline line is holding above its WMA, but is still below the resistance from the highs earlier in the week (line a). A strong move above this level is needed to indicate that the corrective period is over. A convincing close below the strong support (line b) would be negative. The daily chart of the Spyder Trust (SPY) shows the new high for the month on Friday, but then a lower close, which is typically not an encouraging sign. The 20-day EMA is at $264.88 and has started to stabilize, and SPY closed slightly above it on Friday. The daily starc+ band and the downtrend (line a) are in the $274.68 area. There is good support at $258-$260, which if violated could mean a sharp drop to the $252-$254 area (line b). The volume has not been impressive on the recent bounce, as the daily on-balance-volume (OBV) had an anemic rally above its flat WMA and closed Friday barely below its WMA. This increases the odds of a break to the downside and a test of the stronger support (line e). The weekly OBV is also negative, but the monthly is clearly positive. On the downside, a break below the recent lows at $153.88 is likely to mean a test of the February lows at $149.88. There is quarterly pivot support at $148.47 which corresponds to the weekly starc- band. There is major support in the $145.10 area (line c). The weekly Nasdaq 100 A/D line is still barely below its still-rising WMA. The daily A/D line closed the week back below its WMA. The relative performance analysis still favors the small-cap iShares Russell 2000 (IWM), even though there are no clear signs yet that it has completed a major bottom. I am also watching some of the technology ETFs, which could complete their bottom formations in the next few weeks. Dojis are often a sign of indecision and can be an early sign of a trend change. In Friday’s session, AAPL was higher all day and closed up 0.3% while the SPY was down 0.3%. The weekly relative performance (RS) had turned up from its WMA a week ago and improved further this week. The RS compares a stock like AAPL to the S&P 500, and when the RS is rising, it shows that that stock is performing better than the S&P 500. The weekly OBV made a new high last week, as it is higher now than when AAPL had a high of $183.50. The upper resistance (line a) and weekly starc+ bands have next upside targets for AAPL in the $190-area. There are number of other stocks that are coming out of base formations and they are expected to hold up even if the market does see another decline. The action in crude oil is consistent with bottom formation in the CRB Index, which is just below the January high at 201.19 (line a). A strong close above this level now looks likely. The 38.2% Fibonacci retracement level is at 215.54. There is strong chart resistance, and the 50% retracement resistance at $234.20. In last week’s economic data, the standout was the sharper-than-expected decline in the outlook of small business owners and consumers. In my March article, “The Week Ahead: Should Investors Start Preparing For A Bear Market?”, I discussed the important role that confidence or sentiment plays in the economy and stock market. Last week’s NFIB Small Business Optimism Index was expected to come in at 107, but instead was reported at 104.7. This was the lowest reading since last October, as eight out of ten components declined. The mid-month reading on Consumer Sentiment came in at 97.8, well below last month’s closing reading of 101.4. As Econoday commented, the easing in their outlook for current conditions may warn of a decline in consumer spending. On Monday we have data coming out on Retail Sales, the Empire State Manufacturing Survey, Business Inventories and the Housing Market Index. These reports are followed by Tuesday’s data on Housing Starts and Industrial Production. The monthly reading on the Leading Economic Index (LEI) is out on Thursday, along with the Philadelphia Fed Business Outlook Survey. What should investors and traders do in this environment? The action of the weekly advance/decline line and the corrective nature of the daily A/D lines still favors a cautious approach, with no indication that the market has yet bottomed out. This means that both investors and traders should remain patient. There are some reasons to buy the broadly-based global ETFs, as they are acting better than the US market. There are also some of the specialized sector ETFs, like USO, which provide some good opportunities. However, once there are clear signs that the corrections are over the risk, as well as the potential reward on the long side, will be much more favorable. If you are interested in learning more about the stock market and investing, I hope you will consider the Viper ETF or Viper Hot Stocks reports. Each is sent out twice a week and the reports are only $34.95 each per month. 