A three-year slump in world oil prices has hit the economy of Brunei so hard that its GDP shrunk while much of East Asia grew. The wealthy Southeast Asian country flush with fuel drills offshore and onshore for up to 127,000 barrels of oil and 243,000 of natural gas per day, the U.S. International Trade Administration says. Brunei has gone about business that way for 80 years. But the economy declined 2.5% in 2016 and was on track for another loss last year because of a drop in oil production tied to lower world prices since 2015. Energy makes up about 60% of the $11.4 billion GDP. Since 2016, the government has lost revenue, addling consumption and public investment, according to the Asean+3 Regional Economic Outlook. Now China is offering Brunei a boost via the $900 billion Belt-and-Road initiative. That five-year-old ambition of Beijing calls for building up infrastructure and in turn, Chinese trade routes, in 65 countries in Eurasia. To retool its economy, Brunei “needs support from outside the country, and China obviously has the financial wherewithal to provide that kind of support,” says Jonathan Spangler, director of the South China Sea Think Tank in Taipei. Belt-and-Road projects Trade and investment officials in Brunei declined to comment for this article on specific projects involving investment from China, but a series of recent cases points to a strengthening relationship. Beijing-based Bank of China opened a branch in the tiny sultanate in 2016 as other foreign banks were leaving. In September last year, Chinese President Xi Jinping and Brunei’s Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah agreed to step up cooperation in the Belt-and-Road context, state-run Xinhua News Agency of China said. More on Forbes: The China Belt And Road Initiative Could Help - Or Hurt - Clean Energy In Emerging Economies Chinese contractors also built a 2,680-meter-long sea bridge from the mainland to Pulau Muara Besar that's due to open this month. China’s Hengyi Petrochemicals Co. offered $79 million worth of “Belt and Road” bonds on the Shenzhen stock exchange to fund a plant in Brunei, the news website YiCai Global said in March. A joint venture invested by the Chinese petrochemical firm said in March 2017 via Beijing’s state-run China Daily it would invest more than $3.4 billion in an “integrated” oil refinery. That project would let Brunei make the most of its fossil fuel discoveries. It comes as Brunei’s once enviable oil and gas reserves are forecast to run out. And last year Brunei gave a nod to charter flights from two Chinese cities, with a view toward bringing in more tourists, China’s official Xinhua News Agency says. The tiny country's economy is expected to grow 0.7% this year. Converging China-Brunei oil interests Brunei is trying to diversify its economy away from purely gas and oil, in large part due to waning resources. But for now, the Southeast Asian state’s foreign ministry says, China and Brunei “cooperate extensively” in energy. The country controls one low-tide land feature, Louisa Reef, in a 200 nautical-mile (370-km) exclusive economic zone off its South China Sea coast. China claims the same tract of water, and despite a potential sovereignty conflict, the two sides have not clashed in a territorial dispute. And with China talking about joint exploration with the Philippines, Brunei could be hoping for a similar partnership, says Alan Chong, associate professor at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore. “Of course the best scenario would be for China to offer a joint exploration with Brunei, which is what they’re doing with the Philippines and Vietnam,” Chong says. 