In its March meeting, the FOMC’s midpoint projection for the PCE price index (which is assumed to be equivalent to Core PCE) did not hit 2.0% until 2019. However, it seems likely that it will achieve this level either in the data announced later this month or next month, clearly much earlier than the FOMC expected. Street estimates for Core PCE inflation have risen further since my last report on this important topic: 2% US Core Inflation In Sight. Indeed, according to one major survey, the consensus among economists has recently increased to 2.0% year-over-year for both the 3Q and 4Q. However, even these also may prove quite conservative, as if the March result announced at the end of this month rises 0.20% month-over-month, as seems likely, then it is quite possible that it could translate on a rounded up basis to 2.0% year-over-year. The prospect of hitting the Fed’s inflation target so early (assuming the target truly is the Core PCE deflator) likely surprises quite a few investors (especially as it seems it will not be just temporary; rather, meeting or exceeding 2.0% for the rest of the year and onward), but given the geopolitical headwinds and risk markets' ructions, the fixed income markets have not panicked. Also, regarding economist consensus forecasts, it has to be noted that through July of last year, economists expected 2.0% by the 3Q18, only to reduce it to 1.8% in October through January. Could their 2.0% forecasts for the second half of 2018 be wrong again? Certainly possible, but such is unlikely barring a global deceleration in the global economy and risk asset prices. It is notable that approximately 0.2% of the likely year-over-year growth spurt for Core PCE in March from February’s level will be due to the elimination of the negative base effect from plunging cellphone service prices last March. On a 6-month SAAR basis (which eliminates this year-over-year base effect), Core PCE ran at 2.3% in February, and if at 0.2% month-over-month in March, it will reach 2.4%, which significantly exceeds the Fed’s target.    Meanwhile, the Fed’s heavy reliance on PCE inflation is hampered by major revisions to this data set, especially when the statisticians in their annual benchmarking use actual, instead of estimated data, for some services prices. If it were to be revised up, the FOMC might find itself behind the curve, so some care should be taken about relying just on PCE data. Thus, the Fed should equally consider the Core CPI, which is only slightly revised annually and, thus, is more reliable in many ways. It hit 2.1% year-over-year in today’s report for March and was 2.6% on a 6-month SAAR basis, showing that the acceleration in inflation is not just due to base effects. If the Core CPI only rose 0.10% month-over-month going forward, it would remain at 2.1% year-over-year next month and remain moderately above that year-over-year growth rate through June. More likely, it will hit 2.3% by that time. Notably, it exceeded 2.0% year-over-year from late 2015 through early 2017, but slumped below such thereafter due to surprising (even to the Fed) weakness in auto, mobile phone service and medical prices. However, the Core PCE never exceeded 2.0% after 2012, which allayed Fed concerns about the CPI during 2016 and kept them on a extraordinarily accommodative path. This time is clearly different, however. Lastly, due to the recent rise in oil prices, mostly due to geopolitical concerns, gasoline prices should rise through June (on a seasonally adjusted basis). Thus, June’s Total CPI should rise to nearly 2.7% year-over-year. This rise in the Total CPI inflation outlook will likely be unwelcome to the markets and to the Fed. All of this clearly indicates that, barring some major geopolitical or internal U.S. turbulence, the Fed should not diminish its hiking cycle and might consider accelerating it because rates remain at greatly accommodative levels. It also should be sure to consider both PCE and CPI measures, as the former can be significantly revised. 