Unless you’ve been living in a cave for the past 10 years, I’m sure you’ve heard of the incredible boom in onshore U.S. shale production for crude oil. There’s an ongoing revolution out there friends, and it has transformed global energy markets in ways never thought possible. What’s not so well known, however, is that our offshore crude production has also been steadily increasing in recent years. The sunken price environment since 2014 makes this progress even more impressive. It’s easy to forget about offshore. It doesn’t seem as important today as it was once. Way before the great shale gale, back in 2000, offshore Gulf of Mexico accounted for 25% of our crude output, but that number stood at 18% in 2017. Yet, it was only a decade or so ago that the U.S. Energy Information Administration was projecting that ALL NEW crude production in the country would come from offshore – sensible forecasts at the time that were all completely up-ended by shale. Global offshore oil production has remained steady at ~27 million b/d over the last ten years, but rising supply has dropped its share of total output below 30%. But, the future is very bright for offshore. The technologies and expertise continue to improve: perhaps the biggest mistake the anti-fossil fuel business continues to make is to underestimate or downright ignore the ongoing advancements in the coal, oil, and natural gas industries. And as prices increase, the more access we have to our massive offshore resources, and the more desirable they become. Moreover, as global demand continues to grow (now projected to rise 1.7 million b/d this year), offshore will become even more vital to meet the rising energy needs of a world that absolutely adds (births - deaths) 230,000 people every day. Again, non-stop economic and population expansion ensures that we will need all sources of energy in the decades to come (recent troubles at Tesla exemplify, once again, just how difficult it is to displace even a small fraction of our oil usage). Remember that offshore deposits are usually larger than those found onshore, so the interest level in developing them is naturally very high, despite the obvious engineering challenges such a costly and complex endeavor brings. Upticks in oil prices encourage more offshore oil development. And a significant price increase might not be as far off as it now appears. For example, given sunken prices, there’s been well over $1 trillion in new projects canceled, leading to an underinvestment in new supply that could ultimately mean a price spike in the early-2020s. But thanks to the recent higher prices stemming from the November 2016 agreement between OPEC and partners to cut 1.8 million b/d in production, we could see $1.6 to $1.8 trillion in offshore CAPEX by 2022. In particular for us, the U.S. push for more offshore will help us feed a growing oil export business that is buffering the over-influence of OPEC and Russia around the world. The awesome upsurge in U.S. crude exports is one of the biggest stories in the energy business over the past year. Under the Trump administration's new plan, the U.S. Department of the Interior would open 25 of 26 regions of the outer continental shelf to drilling. We know that we have an offshore oil and gas treasure trove just waiting to be developed.