While U.S. shale oil and gas production continues to captivate the global energy market’s attention, the independent stalwarts at the center of it all are rapidly turning their focus to capital efficiency, something they ignored, in many cases perilously, during boom times. After OPEC left its taps on to take on the shale producers back in 2014, in a fight that saw the crude price drop to as low as $27 per barrel at one point, much of the market obsessed over the survival tactics of American producers. Amid waves of job and cost cuts, and headline grabbing bankruptcies in the oil patch, were admirable tales of operational efficiencies and hedging strategies that kept many players going at $30 much to frustration of global rivals hoping to drive the plucky American independents out of business. Of course, OPEC eventually relented and instituted a new round of global cuts to support the price with the policy still in play. If those adjustments could be deemed as the ‘survival phase’ of U.S. independents, what’s afoot at the moment in the shape of boosting cash flow and financial stability underpinned by crude prices oscillating in the predictable range of $55-70, could well be labelled the ‘stabilization phase’. Louis J. Davis, Chair of law firm Baker McKenzie's North America Oil & Gas Practice, says sentiment is the cardinal factor behind putting better finances in place and getting things done in the oil patch. "That sentiment has turned positive. Industry players are in a much happier place. They register the positivity in the data with rig counts going up and relative price stability; a marked contrast from the carnage of 2016. "While no one expects a $100 oil price, hardly anyone expects it drop dramatically to $20 either. This gives comfort to an industry that has gotten excellent – over the last [troubling] few years – at finding the product now in an efficient way with decent, if not spectacular, margins. "That means the U.S. oil patch is not going away and what the market will now see is incremental cash flow stability over the next 12 to 18 months in lockstep with a sure march towards higher production." In fact, anecdotal evidence in Houston, Texas – America’s oil capital – appears to be in step with market data on capital raising exercises. According to data aggregator Dealogic, in 2017, U.S. exploration and production (E&P) companies raised around $60 billion from bond sales, largely after OPEC signaled its intent to support the price over the second quarter. The figure marks a 30% increase in annualized terms over 2016, and the highest amount raised via bond sales since the initial oil price slump began at the midway point of 2014, according to Dealogic’s figures. Admittedly, the biggest raisings, most of which came after OPEC’s cut had been formally announced in the second half of the year, were done by the likes of Whiting Petroleum and Endeavor Energy; players who cannot be described as small independents. But the sum total for 2017 represents a plethora of independents from across the U.S. oil patch. Furthermore, Deborah Byers, Oil & Gas Leader and Managing Partner of EY's Houston practice, notes there is growing evidence of banks increasing their reserve-based loan facilities in the current climate. "Lenders are feeling more comfortable making loans to shale players these days because they find the borrowers in a cautious mindset backed up by operational efficiencies. Many, if not all, U.S. oil and gas companies that filed for bankruptcy in 2015-16 had great assets but had overstretched themselves. "It’s a mistake the industry appears determined not to repeat in the event of another price plunge; a sentiment that lenders appreciate. That said the capital market has been a little scarcer especially on the oilfield services side, which in itself has instilled discipline and people are learning to operate within their means." The key here is to maintain that discipline and Byers think it is unlikely to waver. "In many ways, the U.S. oil and gas industry appears more efficient and productive at $60 than it ever was at $110. Furthermore, if cash flow is great, companies would remain in a position to invest ahead of the curve." While every U.S. player's pain threshold is different, some could in theory manage at prices as low as $30, as they demonstrated last year. But Byers reckons $50 would keep most happy with capital and operational efficiencies actually accompanying rising U.S. production, rather than an "either/or" situation. It's a viewpoint shared by Moody's. "Companies will be able to demonstrate meaningful capital efficiency, measured by the leveraged full cycle ratio if the West Texas Intermediate oil price is above $50 per barrel," says Steve Wood, an analyst at the ratings agency. While predicting U.S. oil production to cap that of both Russia and Saudi Arabia, the International Energy Agency also observes the new mantra for shale players is 'moderation' at $50. "It reflects a desire to greet stronger prices as an opportunity to consolidate rather than to launch yet more headlong expansion," as efficiencies already achieved in leaner times would help players stateside to produce more with less, it adds. And if $50 is what’s deemed ideal, a recent study by Stifel, a research company, flags up an interesting point. In notes that the U.S. independents with the best free cash flow yield so far in 2018 include Devon Energy, Continental Resources, Marathon Oil, Newfield Exploration and Abraxas Petroleum; all of whom are publicly traded companies that can "grow production volumes" while "underspending" in the current price environment. More broadly speaking, hedging is king, says Byers of EY. "Quite a few have hedged out and hedged well, deploying the 'early and often' strategy at the first sign of fresh price upticks. That has a lot of upside, and it’s a strategy E&P companies are not going to ditch even in a calmer crude market." Consolidation in the industry is also inevitable and very much a part of achieving those much talked about capital and operational efficiencies, says Davis of Baker McKenzie. "I tend to represent both buyers and sellers, and these days it’s more a case of the former. The issue for the market is a buyer-seller disconnect. It’s fashionable to hear in Texas that there is $1 to 5 billion of dry powder sitting around for deals, but in a prudent market neither private equity nor mid to major oil players will overpay for assets or companies." Many sellers are still being unrealistic despite being under water, especially those who overpaid when the oil price was in three figures, he adds. "So right now, deal flows are an improvement on 2017 [which was practically dead], if not spectacular, but deal documents are fewer and remain very seller friendly. "I have a number of clients who are actively kicking tyres trying to find the right asset. They are convinced if they can find the right deal, they can also find the financial backing for it [or already have the backing]. Yet, they are having a hard time finding deals because they think the deals that are out there are overpriced, and they won’t overpay. Some might say that takes away the 'romance' of major oil patch deals, but if moderation is keeping the U.S. industry in a healthy place that it is in – then that’s not necessarily a bad thing." So the verdict from Houston – expect more of the same, and if the West Texas Intermediate continues to lurk above $50, cash flow optimization in tandem with incremental U.S. barrels need not be a pipe dream, rather a reality over the next 12-18 months.