Investors have been calling for shale producers to avoid overspending because it could mean too much production which would drive down oil prices and leave them unable to service their debt. Needless to say, other producers such as OPEC would be pleased is U.S. producers exercised such restraint, but as English philosopher Michael Jagger said, you can’t always get what you want. Analytically, trying to separate out the real numbers from the mix of bullish and bearish prognosticators is very challenging, since different actors have said everything from shale production will inevitably boom to shale is near a peak and decline. On the one hand, there are numerous cassadandras warning that “Shale Oil is Just a Blip” “The Shale Boom Might Not Last Long,” and “Has the U.S. Shale Revolution Peaked?” The biggest pessimists are peak oil advocates, who have transferred their psychological bias from conventional to shale oil, but some have raised concerns that recent success has been due more to high-grading (drilling only in the best locations) instead of improved methods, which has its limits. At the same time, the primary official forecasts are mildly optimistic, as the figure below shows. (The numbers are interpolated; EIA in particular shows only long-term trends.) Over the next five years, the ‘reference’ cases expect a growth of 1.5 to 3 mb/d (excluding EIA’s hi/lo Technology/Resource base case.) This would represent 1/5 to 2/5ths of demand growth during that period, which is enough to matter but hardly enough to crash the oil price. Interestingly, all of these forecasts call for significantly slower growth than experienced in the past year, from 0.3 to 0. 6 mb/d per year, versus this year's expected growth of about 1 mb/d. This could reflect expectations that, as some have warned, the sweet spots are being exhausted, but are more likely to simply reflect institutional pessimism. Calling for capital discipline is hardly new and probably futile. In ancient times—the 1990s—the industry saw spending soar in the mid-decade when prices rallied with tighter markets. The number of rigs operating internationally (excluding North America, Russia and China) dropped sharply when oil prices fell in 1998, and although prices have recovered by December 1999, the number of rigs active did not recover until January 2004, about two years after prices had recovered. (For the U.S., oil rigs operating did not recover to pre-1998 levels until September 2008, about six years after prices had recovered.) (See Figure) When prices began to rise in 2004, talk from CEO’s in the oil industry initially focused on ‘capital discipline’. “Capital discipline is critical to growing long-term returns, particularly in a declining margin environment,” said a March 2004 Exxon statement to investors. A Barron’s reporter, in a 2006 article titled “World’s Best CEOs” made this statement about BP CEO John Browne, “Through the ups and downs of the crude-oil cycle, Browne has set the standard for capital discipline, financial disclosure and aggressive targets.” The typical explanation was that the industry believed then-rising prices were cyclical and companies wished to avoid bidding up their costs, whether labor or equipment, by chasing scarce assets. That was done in the 1980s, when much of the higher cash flows were absorbed by escalating costs, rather than higher profits or production. Needless to say, last decade’s capital discipline didn’t last: activity soared globally and inputs costs tripled, leading some to the false conclusion that the marginal cost of production was $100 a barrel, and the long-term price had to be above that level. But the shale fields were a different animal altogether. Although a number of companies moved in, tested production methods to determine the play's economic viability, others rushed in and purchased as much land as they could, expecting high and rising cash flows to enable them to service their debt. The fall in natural gas prices from double digit levels in 2006-2008 to below $5/Mcf in early 2010 hurt the companies, like Chesapeake Energy, that were heavily invested in shale gas. 2014 was the shale oil producers’ turn; when prices dropped sharply, so did rig counts and a number of smaller producers went bankrupt. Are we repeating the cycle? The biggest uncertainty rests in so-called breakeven costs, the level of prices needed for producers to make a profit (or at least not lose money). Although a number of analysts have suggested that shale oil is not profitable, companies continue to invest and increase production. The recent surge, when oil prices were roughly $60 per barrel, implies that projections of much slower increases are likely to be overly conservative. With lower costs and drilling at a fraction of peak levels (see next figure), it is hard to believe that the industry is spending like a drunken sailor, especially when at least some investors are urging caution. On the other hand, reports that land prices are soaring appear to be contradicted by data suggesting prices in, for example, the Eagle Ford are about half what they were in 2012, indicating that irrational exuberance is not inflating prices to previous levels. Permian prices are elevated, too, but appear to be about the level of Eagle Ford prices in 2012, despite much higher well productivity. Anecdotal reports like this are far from definitive, but it appears that shale producers are being more restrained than five and ten years ago, not rushing in to snap up any acreage that lies within a greater basin at any price, while investors are not blindly throwing money at the sector. Which suggests that current production growth is sustainable and OPEC might have to revisit its price preference. Admittedly, there is much work that remains to be done to reduce the many uncertainties. 