With airline earnings reports set to begin coming in Thursday, investors hope a continued strong demand outlook can bolster stocks despite a volatile stock market and rising oil prices. Delta will report earnings before the market opens Thursday. “Airlines are set to report in line or modestly better 1Q18 consensus beginning with Delta tomorrow,” Buckingham Research analyst Dan McKenzie wrote in a note issued Wednesday. “Looking ahead, 2Q outlooks likely prove a slight disappointment on a tough [revenue per available seat mile] comp, but not enough to cause a reset to full year outlooks,” McKenzie wrote.    He said stock market volatility “is not yet driving demand volatility.” While it makes sense to remain conservative, he said, “firm underlying demand (bookings +8% YoY last week) plus commercial initiatives mean airlines are set to boost revenue through year-end.” McKenzie said Delta remains his top pick. He has buys on major airlines except for Allegiant, JetBlue and Spirit, which he rates neutral. JetBlue reported Wednesday that it expects first-quarter RASM to increase approximately 6.1%, above prior guidance between 3.5% and 5.5% “as a result of stronger close-in peak demand in March” and a lower than expected completion factor in the final weeks of March. Completing fewer flights meant more revenue on the flights that operated. “For the first quarter in total, RASM was positively impacted by approximately one point due to lower completion factor,” JetBlue said. Following the report, Cowen & Co. analyst Helane Becker reiterated a market perform on JetBlue shares while reducing her target price to $22 from $23. Becker said the carrier’s cost per available seat mile will likely rise due to the reduction in completed flights. Additionally, she said, “Looking forward, we expect a fairly substantial sequential reduction in unit revenue from 1Q18 to 2Q18.” In early trading Wednesday, JetBlue shares were down nine cents to $19.27. The carrier reports earnings on April 24. Airline shares performed poorly in the first quarter, with only United in positive territory United shares closed Tuesday up 0.28% year-to-date. United was not only the only carrier in positive territory, but also it was the only one to lead the S&P 500 Stock Index, which was down 0.63% year-to-date following Tuesday’s close. Next best was Delta, which was down 6.5% year-to-date. Tuesday was a disturbing day as American provided unit revenue guidance at the end of the previous range, yet saw its shares fall 5%. The carrier said first-quarter total revenue per available seat mile would gain between 3% and 4%, at the end of the previous estimate between 2% and 4%. Analysts attributed the decline to a failure to meet positive expectations and to rising fuel prices. “We suspect some of the selloff today is due to the market having priced in a bigger beat than what American guided to,” wrote Stifel analyst Joseph DeNardi late Tuesday. “In addition, higher oil prices today along with headlines from Saudi expressing its desire for $80/bbl oil is also a headwind.” DeNardi said that while American reiterated full-year earnings per share guidance of $5.50 to $6.50. “the fuel price per gallon assumption embedded in the guidance seems to be below the forward curve.” He estimated an EPS headwind of 25 cents due to higher fuel. 