This story was updated at 5 p.m. EDT Thursday with closing share prices and additional commentary from American. American Airlines sounded an alarm about rising fuel prices, saying its first-quarter fuel costs rose 26% and its full-year fuel cost will rise by $2.3 billion. On Thursday, most airline stock prices showed declines, led by 6% at American and 5% Spirit. Only JetBlue, up two cents a share, showed a gain. In a note, JP Morgan analyst Jamie Baker wrote that the airline industry is likely to make capacity cuts following the summer travel season. In its first-quarter earnings report, released before the market opened, American said it spent $412 million more on fuel than it would have if fuel costs had remained unchanged from last year. The potential for a $2.3 billion full-year cost increase was first mentioned on the 8:30 a.m. ET earnings call.    American forecast a 30.1% year-over-year increase in consolidated 2018 fuel expense, or an increase of $2.3 billion. It estimated an average fuel price between $2.16 and $2.21 a gallon. CEO Doug Parker says fuel is up 60% since last summer, including 12% in past two weeks. “The way to deal with this is primarily on the revenue side,” he said. But fares have not gone up yet, he acknowledged. “It takes time to adapt,” Parker said. “I view that as a near-term problem not a long-term problem. It doesn’t happen immediately.” Later, Parker said, that “Oil is our second largest expense” and that “as the cost of production goes up, the cost of product generally follows.” Asked whether American might reduce capacity in response to rising fuel prices, Parker said there is no immediate change in capacity guidance “as we head for the best part of the year. “We are growing less than the others,” he said. “We certainly will look at our [capacity growth] to make sure that things like utilization flaying still makes as much sense and look at the fleet as well. That’s where the real leverage is -- capacity. Later, Parker said, “There’s nothing for us to do right now.” However, he said, American could make changes “as we start to build the fall schedule.” Utilization flying refers to the practice of flying an aircraft more hours per day. Lower fuel costs might turn an unprofitable flight into a profitable one, enabling more aircraft utilization. Higher fuel costs might lead to cancellation of such a flight and to lower utilization of an aircraft. Common wisdom in the airline industry is that it takes time to raise fares in response to higher cost because no airline can act unilaterally to raise fares. Other airlines must follow or else ticket price increases are quickly rolled back. During his remarks, Parker referred to the ever-present “lag” in pricing actions. In a report issued Thursday, Baker, the JP Morgan analyst, wrote, “Precedent suggests capacity cuts are imminent. “As with other fuel spikes, pricing spats, and/or demand shocks, we remain steadfast in our conviction that the industry will undertake requisite steps to restore profitability closer to original business plans,” Baker said. “Domestic fare increases have already begun since mid-March (and took another leg up in ULCC markets last week), but summer capacity is already fully baked – meaning that any incremental capacity cuts will likely be reserved for the seasonally-soft autumnal period,” he said. On the plus side for American, demand for seats is strong and President Robert Isom said the next few years include more gates at hubs in Dallas, Chicago and Charlotte. “Our network focuses on our hubs and gateways, places where we have the greatest competitive advantage,” Isom said. Coincidentally, the Federal Aviation Administration will host a public hearing Thursday night on a proposed fourth runway for Charlotte Douglas International Airport. The runway is scheduled to open in 2021. The airport, which will operate with 111 gates this summer, has long-term plans to expand the number of gates to 164.   