Lost amid all the controversy over NAFTA, TPP, Chinese tariffs and steel tariffs, and bilateral trade deficits is what will almost certainly have a far more significant and enduring impact on the global economy, on global security, on geopolitics, than any of these other critical issues on President Trump's radar. Oil. The United States, which became a net exporter of gasoline and other petroleum fuels in 2011, is now growing its oil exports rapidly. That is thanks to hydraulic fracturing and an Obama-era change in U.S. policy to end a virtual embargo on oil exports that dated to the crippling 1970s Arab oil embargo. Consider: U.S. oil exports, ranked 196th a decade ago among roughly 1,265 export categories, have now cracked the top 10, ending 2017 at No. 7. In the last decade, oil exports have grown more than 1,858% while overall U.S. exports have increased 34.71%. The value of oil imports into the United States has fallen 45.91% in that time. While the value of oil exports are still relatively small compared to oil imports, the nation's top-ranked import by value, the change has been dramatic. In 2007, oil exports accounted for less than one penny of every dollar in U.S. oil trade -- exports and imports combined. In 2016, it had risen eightfold, to eight cents on the dollar. In 2017, it increased another 75 percent to 14 cents on the dollar. But this is not just a U.S. story, of course. The oil market is multi-faceted, and fortunes and been both made and lost guessing on what tomorrow will bring. Today, oil prices are at a three-year high, as the agreement among the world's major producers to limit supply, led by Saudi Arabia and Russia, has held. But with some apparent disagreement percolating between Saudi Arabia, which wants higher prices and a continued constriction of supply, and Russia, which is content with the current prices and favors opening the taps, the solidarity might be tested. Also today, there appears to be some pressure on the Texas fracking industry, which was a major force as oil prices fell from a high of $100 per barrel to $30, to keep growing. There are some other wild cards. The rise of solar and other non-fuel fossil energy sources. What demand can we expect from India, China and other emerging markets? With so many unknowns in the oil supply, the potential impact is great. It's great not only on the Middle East but also oil-producing countries in Africa; in Venezuela, Mexico, Colombia and Ecuador in Latin America; and in Canada, overwhelmingly the United States' No. 1 source of imported oil. Particularly in the developing nations, where the percentage of young men tends to be higher, increasing unemployment would not be a force for good. The United States would be wise to focus on increasing the oil it can generate while preparing for a future less dependent on fossil fuels and spend less time worrying about tariffs and trade wars.