As Earth Day rolls around again, whether we have seen Blue Planet II, or photos of whales and other sea life that have starved on a diet of ingested plastics, we are increasingly aware that ocean plastics are a menacing -- and worsening -- problem. China’s role in the issue is critical, particularly since an estimated five million tons of the eight million tons of plastic entering the sea each year comes via China. But there are hopeful signs that stricter environmental regulation by Beijing will have a positive impact on ocean plastics. More On Forbes: Five Asian Countries Dump More Plastic Into Oceans Than Anyone Else Combined I should say upfront that my interest in the subject was piqued by Marcy Trent-Long's terrific podcast, The Eight Million. I was lucky enough to reach plastics expert and Founder of Ocean Recovery Alliance, Doug Woodring, by phone last week before he headed out to kick off the Ocean Film Festival during Hong Kong’s Earth Day celebration. Ocean Recovery Alliance advocates for a circular plastics economy, through multiple initiatives.    So what are China's biggest initiatives to date? China has banned imported waste -- Prior to banning “foreign garbage,” China was the world’s biggest recycler, according to McKinsey, importing more than 50% of the global trade for end-of-life plastic. In 2016 alone, China imported about 87% and 69% of Japan and the U.S.’s plastic waste exports. A plastic bottle recycled in Osaka or New York was very likely to end up in China. China, in turn, was recycling waste plastic to supplement its feedstock of virgin resin to make plastic, of which it was the world’s largest producer (at about 25%). A side note is that now, China’s economy has shifted to higher-grade output and its petrochemicals industry has excess capacity, reducing the need for imported plastics. JB: Can you explain the implications of China not taking the world’s garbage anymore? DW: China is doing good stuff and they’re doing way more than the U.S., and should be congratulated. We should celebrate what’s happened. It’s the shock that the world needed, to onshore technologies and solutions. I call it the “the biggest land-based tsunami” the world has ever seen. And most of the western municipalities have no idea what to do. All are getting hit with the plastics problem that they used to move offshore. Woodring notes Australia has said some of its cities will bury more plastic in landfills as a result. On the other hand, the European Union has responded more thoughtfully, announcing that, by 2030, all plastic packaging (which accounts for about two thirds of the region's plastic waste) must be recyclable, with a goal of recycling 55% of plastic waste by then. JB: Why is the plastic recycling rate so low? DW: Only 10% of the world's plastic gets recycled, there has been a vast under-investment on a global scale to handle the growth in plastic materials. A great analogy for why it’s so expensive is, it’s like re-constituting an omelet. If you make an omelet of eggs, cheese, peppers, mushrooms, and someone says, “go reconstitute that to its original form,” that’s the complexity of making plastic valuable. Woodring notes that making new plastic is always cheaper than recycling, barring much higher oil prices. Three things that he suggests would help increase the recycling rate worldwide are: smarter product design, better sorting of the waste stream on collection, and paying a higher price to send trash to landfills, which he feels municipalities like Hong Kong underprice. JB: What's wrong with the way we separate garbage? DW: The waste system we have today basically says, “throw everything in a black bag with your food and grease and water and coffee.” It takes the value of all those resources to zero, quickly. Unless you sort it right, at the beginning, you will end up with jumbled mush, which is why it costs more to clean, grind and sort all the types of plastic versus just making a virgin batch. China has mandated 46 cities must begin garbage sorting and reach a 35% recycling rate by 2020 -- While there is uncertainty around implementation of the proposed standards, proper sorting into “wet” (think greasy), and dry waste makes a huge difference to recycling economics, not just in China, but worldwide. This means separating out food and other organic items and sending them to a waste-to-energy plant, and sending easy-to-recycle plastics (like PET) to be recycled. (Recyclable plastics, marked 1 or 2 in the U.S. liquify at their melting point and can be re-used, non-recyclable ones, like those in plastic bags, ziplock bags and plastic silverware simply burn). In China, the waste is generally dealt with, even now, by garbage pickers, who sort through garbage dumps, often with no protective gear, gathering metals, paper, etc., for resale to municipal facilities. McKinsey found that only 11% of China's plastic was recycled and that over 80% of the ocean plastic is uncollected waste. Not surprisingly, China's situation is different to that of the Philippines or other countries in terms of how much waste goes to a dump vs an incinerator or open landfill. But in the 5 countries (including China) that are the source of the majority of ocean plastics, a better collection infrastructure could reduce leakage by 50%, McKinsey estimates. Inclusion and empowerment of waste-pickers, who face many health risks, is key in China. China is building out its waste-to-energy (incineration) capacity -- Waste-to-energy can take many forms, and can generate electricity, or make fuel, among other outcomes. Very generally, it is a way to deal with "low-value" plastics, which are not easily recycled. This is true not just for China, which is building incineration plants faster than any other nation, but for the world. Most experts, including Woodring and McKinsey, favor different forms of waste-to-energy for low-value plastics. In his TEDxWanChai talk, Woodring says that 50% of the plastics used today fall into this category. Some 90% of them don’t get recycled, and leak into oceans where they readily decompose into micro-plastics. "Waste-to-fuel," Woodring says, "absolutely, its one of the most important things on the planet. You can distill this stuff into clean diesel." McKinsey estimates that manually sorting high-value plastic waste (for recycling) and converting much of the remainder to refuse-derived fuel (RDF) for use in the cement industry, could replace 3% of total coal consumption in the five countries that are the source of over half the ocean plastics each year. That’s impressive. Yet there is concern about China’s plan to increase waste-to-energy facilities at such a rapid pace -- despite the potential benefits of state-of-the-art technology, many fear plants will be built to lesser standards. How China deals with plastics is just one if its ongoing policy efforts to build an “ecological society.” By taking action, especially through its imports ban, China can help galvanize worldwide efforts to deal with plastics in a more circular way. 