The analysts’ consensus for Apple on my Bloomberg shows 29 buys, 16 holds, no sells. Target price comes in at $193, but a present tick of $163. This kind of a nonsensical constituency is repetitive for all of FANG and most big cap tech houses. Our market is saturated in deep irony, and volatility is its middle name. Post bad numbers and they take your pants down. General Electric, decades ago the biggest market capitalization in the S&P 500 just ran out of accounting mufti pufti and fights to stay above a single digit cast off. If Apple has run out of gas and Facebook needs shaking up, who is to say how technology is valued by the Street? Alibaba, not listed in the S&P 500 Index remains a Chinese riddle. Analysts regularly miss Alphabet’s quarterly numbers by a yard so valuation is a slippery eel. Nobody cares to explain fully the flattening yield curve, normally a recession indicator. But, this seems false in our economy gathering momentum, not losing steam.    I’m afraid to look at any printout on Amazon, but if the Apple news at the margin proves on the money, that iPhone orders are turning toppy, look out below. Even though, Apple trades below the market multiplier at 14 times perceived earnings. Relative valuation is the frequently invoked analyst tool, but I’ve never made money off relative valuation ciphering. Morgan Stanley’s Apple analyst just lowered his price target from $203 to $200, an absurd non sequitur. Isn’t there supposed to be a partner in research who stops analysts from looking foolish in print? Questions, questions. If the biggest market capitalization in the S&P 500, over $700 billion, is shabbily perceived as to current earnings momentum, what is to be said for Amazon, pressing on Apple’s heels in market cap? Nobody can sharp pencil its income statement. Amazon, unlike Apple, doesn’t carry over $200 billion or so on its balance sheet in redundant capital. All of Apple’s $200 billion is readily available for dividends, deals and share buybacks. Not Polaroid running out of cash flow. Conceptually, I own Amazon because it’s my battering ram. One after the other, bricks and mortar retailers bite the dust, no way to reinvent themselves. I thought I found the secret metric for valuating Amazon, it’s operating cash flow. But these numbers, year-to-year do fluctuate widely. The best you can say for Jeff Bezos is he lives within the discipline of his cash flow, doesn’t leverage his balance sheet further and is somewhat restrained in rewarding employees with outsized stock grants or salaries. For most iconic tech houses, variance between GAAP and non-GAAP earnings is at least 20%. I’ve never owned Salesforce.com because of its enormous largesse to employees entailing sizable shareholder dilution. Somewhere, you draw a line in the sand or at least read annual proxy statements which normally run 50 pages. They’re designed by proxy consultants to make your eyes glaze over. Don’t give in and fall asleep. Full disclosure: Every 10 points down, I’ve bought Facebook. Simply, advertising on FB proves very effective and they do raise rates. Revenue momentum here is enormous, ranging over 40% while management’s spend to renew itself is awesome, running 15% of revenues. Comparably, this is double Apple’s R&D ratio which seems to go more for add-ons to existing products. I don’t buy the story that Apple’s recurrent revenue stream from music and other subscription sources carries the company going forward. Not big enough although certainly growable. Although Alibaba’s quarterly reports smother you in numbers, an awesome picture emerges of a worldwide colossus that compounds revenues at 40% or more. I see its Ant Financial subsidiary emerging as a $500 billion market capitalization standalone within a few years. Already the largest money market fund in China, the buildout into equity securities through managed funds, ETFs and index properties is coming. BABA could end up with trillions under management, comparable with Fidelity, BlackRock and Vanguard. You pay for all this in BABA’s current valuation of enterprise value to EBITDA, high twenties. If you believe China’s GDP is headed below 7% growth, pass it by. Alphabet’s metrics are analogous to Facebook while Alibaba still rests outside the S&P 500 Index. Apple’s numbers seem suspect, but much of this is reflected in below market valuation. Even considering widely varied operating spheres, if you own Facebook, Alphabet, Amazon and Alibaba, you own one stock not a diversified foursome. The pivotal metric in Alphabet’s quarterly for me is operating cash flow of $11.6 billion, which annualized at say $50 billion puts valuation at 14 times on a $700 billion market capitalization. Throw Apple into this grouping and we’re talking about a market capitalization combined in the trillions. Call it 20% of the S&P 500’s valuation. So the market can’t go up without some buoyancy herein. It ain’t going to be led by PepsiCo, Coca-Cola, Pfizer, United Technologies and Procter & Gamble. General Electric, once the biggest cap in the S&P 500, is struggling to stay above single digits. Railroads don’t excite me at 18 times earnings while energy is too tied to OPEC’s future discipline on production. I missed Alcoa and U.S. Steel as ripe geopolitical pumpkins, but it’s over. Last column, I wrote about financials, a sizable sector weighting. Unless the yield curve turns sharply positive, no big story rests herein. Everybody’s scratching his head on why we’re experiencing a flattening yield curve. (I’m already losing money on my 2-year Treasuries position.) Central banker response is feeble and mostly conjectural. Is everybody in the world, Chinese included, buying our 2-year paper? Wordy punditry that deals with corporate earnings, interest rates, inflation and the right price-earnings ratio for where we are in the business cycle seems worthless. The market needs good numbers from Facebook, Alphabet and Amazon. Alibaba is irrelevant to the S&P 500 while a mini panic in Apple could be accommodated even if 40 analysts downgrade ratings overnight. I love contrary opinion paper. Long AT&T, General Motors and a bunch of MLPs headed by Enterprise Products Partners. Citigroup is a cheaper bank stock than JPMorgan Chase. I’m buying financial markets’ volatility, so Morgan Stanley is my go to name. Warren Buffett’s 2 biggest equity names are Apple and Wells Fargo, both 14% of portfolio assets. Value investing easily can cost you as much as owning out-of-sync growthies. Sometimes more. That Amazon may extend to become numero uno in the S&P 500 but remain unanalyzable says everything. We’ll know, soon enough. Sosnoff and his managed accounts own: Facebook, Alibaba, Alphabet, Amazon, Morgan Stanley, AT&T, General Motors, Enterprise Products Partners, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo preferreds. msosnoff@gmail.com 