What happened to the synchronized global upswing? In just a few short (but memorable) months, it finally seemed possible that we could put an end to proclamations of the "new normal" and "secular stagnation". 2018 was supposed to be the year of accelerating growth, but so far, in Chinese calendar terms, it looks more like the year of the dog. Things started on a positive note. The IMF revised up their 2018 growth forecast in January, calling it “the broadest synchronized global growth upsurge since 2010." On Tuesday, at their annual spring meeting in Washington, they confirmed their outlook. The late-cycle injection of stimulus from the overhaul of the US tax code only added to the expectations. The reaction in the bond market to the news was to reprice the 10-year government bond yield higher by 50 basis points in anticipation of runaway inflation. But the story began to change in early February. The US stock market had a swift 10% correction, and the sabers started to rattle in the US/China trade conflict. The New York Federal Reserve's Nowcast model, which attempts to read the real-time flow of economic information and evaluate its effects on growth, started to project lower GDP growth. The estimate for real Q1 growth is now 2.8% compared to 3.45% in early January.    In Europe, the situation is worse. Economic data has been much weaker than expected. The German ZEW sentiment gauge last week showed that more investors see a worsening in Europe’s largest economy than forecast an improvement. As a result, the Macroeconomic Policy Institute (IMK) said the probability of a recession in Germany over the next three months now stands at 32 percent, up sharply from 6.8 percent in March. The changes to the macro landscape have the potential to derail the breakout from the stagnant growth that has plagued the global economy since 2008. The good news is that these events are probably not sufficient to end the growth story. The equity drawdown, while violent and uncomfortable for everyone, was overdue and necessary to return sentiment from euphoric levels. Last week, the AAII investor sentiment poll showed the number of bears outpacing the bulls by 17%- the largest spread since early 2016. That same indicator at the start of the year had the bulls outnumbering the bears by 44%. (The indicator rebounded this week to slightly favor the bulls.) As for the economic data, the numbers are not weak. A better way to view the data is “less strong”. The PMI figures in Europe, for example, were at multi-year highs coming into 2018. The composite PMI for France peaked in November at 60.3 and is still at 56.3. Levels above 50 are considered expansionary. Most economists agreed that growth in the Eurozone was running above its long-term potential. Some reversion to the mean was expected. There is a difference between slowing and slow. Most of the slowdown is just that, a slowdown— not a reversal. With so many complex supply chains connecting the global economy, fears of the consequences of an escalating trade war between the world’s economic powerhouses are of obvious concern. Fortunately, both China and the U.S. are looking to end the spat as quickly as it began, and the implications for global trade should be limited as a result. The muted response from financial markets is evidence that investors expect a resolution that does not damage global growth prospects. Credit spreads usually begin to widen before the economy peaks. The option-adjusted spread on the US Bloomberg High Yield Index touched 323 basis points this week-- a new low for this credit cycle. If there is an imminent contraction in global credit on the horizon, the high yield bond market is not aware of it. Other early indicators of a drop in global demand, such as the price of crude oil and copper, also show continued strength. As we move further into the 10th year of the current economic cycle, it is understandable for investors to look for signs of maturation of growth, especially as monetary policy and financial conditions shift from accommodative to tightening. There is little debate that the expansion is classified as "late-cycle" and vulnerable, but that does not mean it has to come to an early end. So far, the mini-macro shocks do not appear to be enough to alter the upward economic momentum that began last year. For the moment, at least, the beat goes on. 