Today I am looking at two FTSE 100 income shares that I am avoiding. A risky selection BP’s share price may have spiked over the past month in response to the hearty uptick in crude prices, but I for one remain happy to sit on the sidelines than join the herd. Concerns over oil supply in the wake of airstrikes in Syria by the West may have propelled energy values higher in recent days, though I remain concerned over the long-term fundamental outlook as non-OPEC nations steadily ramp up output. Indeed, latest Baker Hughes data showed another seven oil drilling rigs added in the U.S. during the last seven days, taking the total to a fresh three-year high of 815. The impact of more and more low-cost producers plugging their hardware back in the ground is reflected by current broker forecasts, however, which suggest earnings growth at BP will cool from 167% in 2018 to 6% next year as crude values likely cool. And while the oil giant is getting the checkbook out again to generate future profits progress after years of scaling back its capex budgets -- this month it has committed to two new projects in the North Sea at an aggregated cost of £420 million -- the prospect of sustained bottom-line growth could prove problematic beyond the medium term as production levels across the Americas and beyond shoot higher. A forward P/E ratio of 15.6 times is not enough to encourage me to invest, nor are projected dividends of 40 U.S. cents per share through to the close of next year, predicted payments that yield a market-beating 5.7%. With debt still rising (net debt chugged to $37.8 billion as of December from $35.5 billion a year earlier), and oil prices in danger of reversing sharply, I reckon BP may struggle to retain its allure as a go-to dividend stock looking further ahead. Another energy dud SSE is another big-yielding, Footsie-quoted stock I would desperately avoid today. The country’s so-called Big Six operators remain under intense scrutiny from consumer groups, politicians and regulators over allegations of imposing extortionate energy tariffs on their clients. Although the threat of profits-crushing price caps hangs large, the sector is fighting back and last week Centrica and EDF Energy announced plans to hike prices again for their customers. Other colossal suppliers like SSE are predicted to follow suit sooner rather than later. The move threatens to infuriate lawmakers who are already eager to reduce costs for cost-pressured households, and this latest action could see Ofgem encouraged to impose even more draconian measures on the industry’s biggest players. Regardless of the price caps tipped for introduction later this year, or indeed any additional regulatory action later down the line, SSE and its peers are already fighting a rearguard action as more and more customers get up and leave for cheap, independent suppliers. The company lost an extra 40,000 accounts between October to December, and the number is only likely to grow as Britain’s switching culture hots up. City analysts are expecting SSE to recover from a predicted 7% earnings slip in the year to March 2018 with rises of 4% and 1% in each of the next two years. I am not so convinced, however, by the firm's bounce back potential and so am not tempted to invest in spite of its low forward P/E multiple of 10.8 times (nor its market-mashing 7.4% dividend yield). Indeed, a rising net debt pile, which ballooned to £7.3 billion by September from £6.7 billion 12 months earlier, allied with its high capex costs and patchy revenues outlook, makes me extremely concerned over SSE’s ability to keep offering above-average dividend yields.