To cover a broad swath of opportunities in the commodity sector, we turn to our MoneyShow.com contributors who select some favorite ideas among gold, silver, uranium and cobalt miners, as well as top plays on black gold with a look at an upstream oil driller, a pipeline operator and a refiner. Frank Holmes, US Global Investors' Frank Talk Since the commodities super cycle unwound nearly 10 years ago, many investors have been waiting for the right conditions to trigger mean reversion and lift prices. I believe those conditions are either firmly in place right now or, at the very least, in their early stages. Among them are factors I’ve discussed at length elsewhere—a weaker U.S. dollar, a steadily flattening yield curve, heightened market volatility, overvalued stocks, expectations of higher inflation, trade war jitters, geopolitical risks and more. In addition, nearly 60% of money managers surveyed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch believe 2018 could be the peak year for stocks. A recent J.P. Morgan survey found that three-quarters of ultra-high net worth individuals forecast a U.S. recession in the next two years. All of this makes the investment case for commodities, gold and energy more compelling than at any other time in recent memory. Exhibit A is the chart below. Relative to equities, commodities are as cheap right now as they’ve been in decades. This is literally a once-in-a-generation opportunity that investors with a long-term view should seriously consider. For perspective, had you invested in a fund tracking the S&P GSCI or an equivalent commodities index in 2000, you would have seen a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of around 10% for the next 10 years, according to Bloomberg data. We all know that past performance is no guarantee of future results, but it’s doubtful you’re going to get a clearer or more resounding signal that now could be an ideal time to add to your commodities exposure. If you feel as if you’ve been stuck at a traffic light these past few years, just waiting to put your foot on the accelerator, you can breathe a sigh of relief because the light may have just turned green. Since the price of gold fell from its highs in 2011, producers have needed more capital to cover increasing costs. This is where precious metal royalty and streaming companies have come into play. These companies help finance explorers and producers’ operations by buying royalties or rights to a stream. Because gold miners have had to slash exploration budgets since the decline in metal prices, the kind of financing royalty companies provide has only grown in demand. Chief among these companies is Franco-Nevada, which recently celebrated the 10-year anniversary of its IPO. Since the company went public in 2008, it’s raised the dividend each year and its share price has outperformed gold bullion and gold miners, as measured by the S&P/TSX Global Gold Index, due to its unique structure and debt-free model. In its 2017 results release, Franco-Nevada CEO David Harquail announced that the company’s 10th full year since its IPO was its best year ever, remains debt free and is “well positioned for another 10 years of success.” The company reported $675 million in revenue, a 10.6% increase year-over-year and basic earnings per share (EPS) of $1.06, a massive increase from 2016 of $0.70 per share. For its 2018 projections, Franco-Nevada expects attributable royalty and stream production to total 460,000 to 490,000 GEOs (gold equivalent ounces) from its mineral assets and revenue of over $50 million from its growing oil and gas assets. This history of profitability and fiscal discipline is one of the main reasons we find royalty companies such as Franco-Nevada so attractive for investing. Incidentally, Franco-Nevada is a holding in the US Global GO GOLD and Precious Metals Miners ETF. This is a dynamic, rules-based ETF that seeks to invest in both junior and senior metal miners with strong balance sheets and skilled management teams. It is unique for potentially having as much as a 30 percent weighting in gold royalty companies, such as Franco-Nevada. Jack Adamo, Insiders Plus Barrick Gold Corp. is a speculative buy based on insider buying activity. Under its old management it got the big obsession, like so many companies in the industry, and finally indebted itself to a point that when prices fell, it got itself in hot water. The company has new management now and is doing a great job at slimming down the company. At 56% of total market capitalization, debt is still noticeably higher than I like, but under the new leadership it has cut its debt in half in just three years and is on track to cut it by another 20% this year. Those are not idle words. It has exceeded its debt reduction targets in all three the years just passed. Earnings more than doubled to $1.23 per share in 2017, but that was mostly due to asset sales (at a profit) as the company continues to cut debt and concentrate on its most profitable mines. Operating cash flow was also good at 136% of earnings, and the balance sheet improved markedly. However, one of the big factors in my pulling the trigger here is that we again see some serious insider buying after a long drought across all sectors. Chairman John Thornton recently bought $3.6 million worth of stock (306,000 shares), the CEO bought 12,000 shares, and two VPs and three directors bought an aggregate of 31,000 shares. I should note there has been insider buying among quite a few gold miners recently, but this is the strongest I’ve seen. Vivian Lewis, Global Investing I continue to own the world’s largest private sector uranium miner, a rare pure play on U3O8 despite its sales decline of 11% last year and losses. Cameco recently provided an SEC filing that gives me hope for nuclear demand. There has been a uranium glut since the 2011 Fukushima disaster as uranium power plans were shelved and existing operations shut. China continued to face excess capacity in the energy sector and first-of-a-kind reactor delays on its AP1000 and EPR reactors. It has not abandoned nuclear. Bloomberg says China’s nuclear-installed capacity could increase tenfold between 2016 and 2050. Construction began on the first nuclear plants in Turkey and Bangladesh. Egypt signed a contract with Russia to build four reactors. Saudi Arabia is prequalifying reactor vendors as it plans for its first nuclear power plant. It plans to install 17 — marking progress on its ambitions to install 17 gigawatts of nuclear capacity by 2040. Forced and premature shutdowns after Fukushima were emotional, but Japan is now safely bringing reactors online. This means Japanese restarts, successful commissioning of new reactors under construction and continued development of new construction plans. Japanese utilities have now successfully navigated through the new, rigorous safety inspection process, with the restart of five reactors and another four to restart in 2018. Worldwide last year four new reactors connected to the grid. Currently, there are 57 reactors under construction worldwide, most expected to come online in the next three years, if startups occur as planned. There is a growing realization that global climate change goals require using to all non-carbon-emitting energy sources, including nuclear. The World Nuclear Association’s target is 25% nuclear by 2050. Jim Powell, Global Changes & Opportunities Report Electric vehicles — or EVs — are attracting customers at a far higher rate than first expected. Although EVs will hurt most existing automakers, the new vehicles will be a boon for companies that supply the specialized parts the EVs need. Batteries that can hold enough juice to make EVs practical are the most important contributors to their success. The keys to high-capacity battery technology are two rare and expensive metals: cobalt and lithium. For cobalt I believe the best choice is still Glencore Plc, a company that I first recommended in January. Glencore now produces more than 20% of the global supply of cobalt. The scarce metal is up 120% so far this year to $72,750 a ton. Glencore recently reported that it quadrupled its earnings in 2017, increased its dividend payout to investors, and is on the lookout for deals in the global mining industry. I expect a long run of rising profits from Glencore. For lithium, the most important battery metal, I recommend Sociedad Quimica y Minera de Chile. The company had previously only been earning a small part of its income from lithium. However, due to the company’s efforts to produce more of the metal, and its rising price in the global market, lithium now accounts for 60% of the company’s revenues. In addition, SQM is talking with Elon Musk at Tesla Motors to supply the vital metal for that company’s EV batteries. Since I also like the outlook for SQM’s fertilizer business — especially its potassium nitrate — I am now recommending the stock for long-term investors. Harry Domash, Dividend Detective If you’ve been keeping up with the news, you may already know that oil refining demand is expected to exceed supply for some time, translating to higher profits for refiners. So, we’re adding one of the largest independent oil refiners to our Energy Industry model portfolio. We’re recommending purchase of Valero Energy in the portfolio. Valero owns and operates 15 oil refineries in the U.S., Canada and the U.K., and 11 ethanol plants in the central U.S. Valero Energy is also the general partner and controlling shareholder of midstream pipeline operator Valero Energy Partners. It’s paying 3.4% and growing dividends around 11% annually. Business is picking up for U.S. refineries and analysts are forecasting 44% EPS growth for Valero in 2018. It has been raising payouts around 12% annually. Mark Skousen, Forecasts & Strategies Enterprise Products Partners is a Houston-based pipeline company that has a 90% payout ratio. It is now profitable for the year and has benefited from the recent rise in the oil price. Its payout ratio is based on cash flow, and the company has increased its dividend for more than 50 consecutive quarters. The company has benefited from higher oil prices and is now profitable for the year. CEO Jim Teague is so bullish that he bought 44,600 units of the Houston-based master limited partnership (MLP) in the past two months. That’s over $1 million in insider buying. However, investors face two concerns with Enterprise. First is the impact of the new 25% tariffs on imported steel. An estimated 77% of the steel used in pipelines comes from overseas. Second, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission recently closed a long-standing tax loophole that allowed MLPs to claim an Income Tax Allowance when reporting oil and gas pipeline costs. Overall, Enterprise Products is now profitable for the year. At this price, the annual distribution yield is a generous 6.6%, and Enterprise is famous for increasing its payout every quarter. This is a great opportunity for income seekers. Chuck Carlson, DRIP Investor The only energy stock I have in my investment portfolios is ExxonMobil, and it hasn’t exactly been a dynamo. The stock is currently trading around its lowest level in the last five years. ExxonMobil has been grappling with the same sorts of challenges impacting most energy producers — how to right-size its sprawling operations given the pricing situation for energy as well as the threat of alternative sources of fuel. And such massive companies don’t shift gears overnight. On the plus side, ExxonMobil’s bottom line should see a rebound this year. The consensus earnings estimate for 2018 is $4.69 per share, a 30% jump over 2017 results. To be sure, predicting future earnings for any energy company is difficult given the potential volatility of energy prices. The stock’s yield of more than 4% should provide some downside support to these shares, especially if the stock market enters a more difficult environment. I don’t expect ExxonMobil to be a huge performer this year. Nevertheless, with a yield of 4% and fairly modest appreciation potential, a 10% total return is not out of the question. For more commodity ideas check out our latest free special report: GOLDEN GAINS: Top Gold Mining Stocks & ETFs for 2018. Elliott Gue, Energy and Income Advisor Occidental Petroleum Corp. is the best value play for investors looking to allocate fresh money to the upstream segment. Although its results and guidance may have disappointed, our longer-term investment thesis remains intact. Its international and petrochemical assets generate significant free cash flow, while the company boasts an impressive footprint—about 650,000 net acres—throughout the Permian Basin. Management identified the New Mexico portion of the Delaware Basin as its tier-1 acreage, citing the presence of three to four primary benches and the lack of legacy vertical wells that can complicate operations. The company also continues to run rigs in the Texas portion of the Delaware Basin and the Midland Basin. Occidental Petroleum also has a substantial acreage position in the Permian Basin that hasn’t been evaluated, creating the potential for additional inventory upside as other operators delineate nearby assets. The company sometimes comes under criticism for the patchwork nature of these holdings; we view them as a convenient source of capital or fodder for asset swaps. The upstream operator has identified more than 3,100 premium drilling locations in the Permian Basin, all of which are expected to break even with oil prices below $50 per barrel. Occidental Petroleum also boasts superior financial flexibility. Its recent weakness looks like a buying opportunity for investors willing to look beyond the first quarter; the stock rates a Buy up to $75 for those who don’t have a position already. 