The "Permian growth wall" predictions are quite premature to me: "Growth in Permian Basin output has been largely a case of a moving goal post that continues to challenge all forecasts." The Permian centered in West Texas is an oil and natural gas production machine. It’s at the heart of the U.S. shale revolution and energy production complex. The lows costs, established infrastructure, and proximity to the Gulf refinery and export markets (for both Mexico and LNG) have all made the Permian highly attractive for developers. In fact, breakeven oil costs in the play can be just $40 per barrel, compared to a WTI oil price today of $69, the highest since November 2014. The Permian is unique in that it produces loads of both oil and gas, with the latter coming out almost “free” because it comes along as a byproduct of oil extraction. Despite producing over 10 Bcf/d of gas, the Permian hasn’t had a single gas-directed rig since May of 2016 - yet gas production has risen 45%. The Permian now holds about 55% of all U.S. oil rigs in the fields, a figure that has stayed in the range of 32-56% since 2011. Since April 2016, Permian oil production has increased around 55%, especially impressive in the low price environment. But the boom has been creating bottlenecks because the pipelines are being filled more quickly than expected. And refinery maintenance and the delay of Energy Transfer Partners' Permian Express pipeline expansion have restricted flows out of the region. At some point over the next few months, the Permian's production of 3.1 million b/d will collide with its takeaway capacity of 3.2 million b/d, which could depress local prices even more and make the region the "worst oil and gas market in the country." The pipeline problem in the Permian has allowed trains to compensate. Once production exceeds capacity, 400,000-500,000 b/d of crude will have to move out of the Permian by rail and potentially truck over the next few years, or until more pipelines can start commercial service. At $6-8 per barrel, shipping crude by rail from the Permian to the Gulf Coast can be double or triple the cost of moving it by pipeline, with trucking double or triple the price of rail. Truck and rail, however, do offer a key benefit by adding destination flexibility and less exposure to more rigid long-term contracts. But the anti-pipeline movement should know that, not just cheaper, pipelines are 4.5 times safer than rail and more of them will help reduce gas flaring. We know that pipeline help is surely coming to West Texas. The resource potential there is just too massive for it not to be. "At least 2.4 million b/d of potential new Permian oil pipeline capacity has been proposed by a half-dozen operators, and those who have progressed to open season have reported strong customer interest." For example, by the end of this year, Permian Express 3 will add 200,000 b/d of capacity. Despite the bottlenecks, "Permian oil production is projected to almost double again to 5.3 million b/d from 2017 by the end of 2020, according to Morningstar," perhaps crushing OPEC's dreams. For natural gas, some 8-8.5 Bcf/d of takeaway capacity expansions in the Permian have been proposed. For example in December, Kinder Morgan, DCP Midstream, and a unit of Targa Resources announced their plan to build the $1.7 billion Gulf Coast Express Pipeline Project to carry nearly 2 Bcf/d of gas starting in October 2019. 