On a "big day of reckoning," President Donald Trump will decide on May 12 if the U.S. is going to restore economic sanctions on Iran. Especially with oil prices now reaching three year highs amid global tension, the oil market is taking note. Iran produces about 5% of the world's oil and is a key global exporter. It's estimated that today's prices have a $1-3 premium that assumes the U.S. will pull out of the nuclear deal and/or deploy additional sanctions that would hamper Iran's ability to sell its oil. Prices could climb $5 per barrel if we completely opt out. In 2017, Iran exported about 1 billion barrels of oil (crude and condensate). This came in a year where OPEC and other important producers decided to cut 1.8 million b/d of production to reduce bloated stockpiles that were dragging on prices. The plan has helped bolster prices: from start to finish in 2017, the prompt-month price of international Brent increased 21%, while U.S. based-WTI increased 16%. Over 60% of Iran's shipments were sent to Asia with Europe taking the rest. Iran has slipped to being OPEC's third-largest producer but seeks a return to the glory days of the 1970s when it produced over 6.5 million b/d. In contrast, neighbor Iraq's oil production has basically doubled since 2010 and is closing in on 5 million b/d. Reported within the past two weeks: Iran wants $60 oil, while Saudi Arabia apparently now wants prices at $100. Iran thinks "the current rally in oil prices could hurt OPEC in the mid-term as it was adding to market volatility." Latest International Energy Agency (IEA) reporting says OECD crude stocks declined in February by 26 million barrels to 2.84 billion barrels, which is higher than the 5-year average 30 million barrels. We should fall to the 5-year crude average in May, and refined products have already slipped below normal. As the largest stockpiler, U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve) have plummeted since the OPEC-led production cuts started in January 2017, with a 108 million barrel drop from the high point during that time to now. On that note, OPEC now says that its own compliance has reached 150%, meaning members have reduced production by about 1.8 million b/d, or 50% higher than what the Organization has agreed to. Schlumberger NV (SLB.N) now says the oil market is balanced, with a potential supply gap emerging unless we have more E&P expenditures. IEA has been consistent and maintains that global oil demand will rise by 1.5 million b/d this year, supported by a positive economic outlook that has global growth at 4% this year and next. New oil demand is non-stop at this point. In fact, a new report from the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies credits oil consumption as the main driver of the rise in oil prices over the past year, even more than the OPEC-led production cuts. Older but long one of my favorite headlines: "Lies, damned lies, and electric vehicle forecasts." Doom and gloom forecasts for oil completely overlook technological advancement and the market impact of prices. In 2006, the world had a 41 year supply of oil, we now have a 51-year supply. So we continually use more oil, yet we continually have more oil to use. I came across a pertinent old Forbes article: "Endless Oil?"