Comstock Resources Inc. has been a bummer over the past few years. While the debt-strapped company didn't file for bankruptcy like many of its peers when oil prices tumbled (it swapped part of its bonds with convertible notes instead), it entertained a move earlier this month that would dilute shareholders, sending its stock down 17% to $6.06 per share. Its shares spent the rest of the month deflating to close at $4.76 yesterday. All that changed today, when the company announced that it was negotiating with billionaire Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones to make a "substantial" investment in the company. Under a letter of intent signed with Jones' oil and gas companies, Arkoma Drilling and Williston Drilling, Frisco, Texas-based Comstock will buy interests in oil and gas properties in North Dakota for $620 million in stock (there's no debt associated with the assets). As a result, Arkoma would receive 88.6 million newly issued shares of Comstock common stock based on an agreed upon share price of $7 per share, giving it an 84% stake in the company. A definitive agreement could come in a few weeks and Comstock stockholders will have to approve it. Wall Street cheered the deal, pushing the company's shares up more than 50% at one point. They ended up closing at $6.98 per share, up 46.6%. The reason? The properties Comstock is buying produce a lot of oil – 10,500 barrels per day – that would balance out its natural gas-weighted portfolio, which includes fields in East Texas' and northern Louisiana's Haynesville shale. The assets are expected to generate $200 million in operating cash flow this year. "This combination provides Comstock with substantial cash flow to invest in their high return Haynesville shale drilling program and the capital to grow their already substantial inventory of drilling prospects," Jones said in a statement announcing the preliminary deal. Comstock CEO Jay Allison said the investment will allow Comstock to refinance and simplify its capital structure. "The strong balance sheet resulting from the combination will allow us to play offense after spending the last three years on defense," he said. The two are also going ahead with a previously announced plan for Arkoma to participate in Comstock's drilling projects in the Haynesville and South Texas' Eagle Ford shale for two years, $75 million worth in the first year and $100 million the second. Comstock said the venture will help it expand its prospects, boost its capital efficiency for projects by 20% and provide capital to address drilling required to maintain leases. Comstock also is withdrawing tender offers to repurchase all of its secured notes, noting plans to retire them once it completes the acquisition of the North Dakota properties with a new revolver and new senior unsecured notes. It now expects its Ebitdax will reach around $400 million this year based on current commodity prices. The company thinks the the increase in cash flow and the interest cost savings from the debt refinancing will increase its cash flow available for reinvestment on its Haynesville properties. David Beard, senior analyst of exploration and production at Coker Palmer Institutional, said Comstock has been trying to complete the restructuring of its balance sheet for over a year, with the most recent version involving asset sales and giving bondholders a combination of cash and stock. "However, as is often the case, a deal such as this – which looks good on paper – is often hard to get enough bondholder votes to pass," he said. That said, Beard thinks Comstock has taken a bold move by acquiring an asset that generates substantial cash flow, putting the company in a better position to refinance its balance sheet and spend more money drilling and acquiring natural gas assets in the Haynesville. "We feel this bold acquisition sets the company up to emerge as a lower levered, higher growth, Haynesville-focused E&P with substantial opportunity to make acquisitions in the Haynesville over time," he said. 