Norfolk Southern is set to report its Q1 2018 earnings on April 25, and we expect the company to post steady growth, primarily led by intermodal freight, which jumped 14% (y-o-y) in the previous quarter. We expect the growth to continue in Q1 as well, as the company benefits from capacity constraints in the trucking industry. However, we don’t expect any significant growth in coal freight, given the lower natural gas prices, and an expected decline in production. We have created an interactive dashboard on Norfolk Southern’s expected performance in 2018. You can adjust the revenue and margin drivers to see the impact on the company’s performance. Intermodal Freight Will Lead Q1 Growth We expect Norfolk Southern’s Intermodal freight revenue to grow by 5% in 2018, primarily due to a positive impact of capacity constraints in the trucking industry, given the full implementation of the ELD (electronic logging device) mandate. In addition, increasing consumer demand will also aid the volume growth, while the pricing growth will be led by increased fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges are a component of revenue per unit, and are linked to prices of WTI or U.S. On Highway Diesel. Due to an increase in oil prices, Norfolk Southern’s fuel surcharge revenues are expected to be higher in Q1, as well as for the full year 2018. Expect Moderate Growth In Coal Freight The coal segment accounts for more than 15% of the company’s overall revenues and income. In terms of carloads, it accounts for around 17% of the company’s overall carloads, and is thus an important segment for Norfolk Southern’s operations. Coal revenues are dependent on two factors: 1) Number of Carloads, and 2) Revenue Per Carload. Norfolk Southern’s coal volume has increased in 2017, and it is expected to continue this trajectory in the near term. However, we don’t expect any significant growth in volume, primarily due to coal export volume, and lower natural gas prices. While the coal export volume dropped in 2016, it was higher in 2017, and is expected to again decline in 2018. It should be noted that the U.S. Energy Information Administration forecasts a 5% decline in coal production, and a 17% decline in coal exports in 2018. In addition, lower natural gas prices will have an impact on overall volume growth. Having said that, higher fuel surcharges should aid the overall pricing.    Overall, we expect the company to post earnings of $8.58 in 2018. We forecast a TTM price to earnings multiple of 18 by the end of 2018, which is slightly lower than most of the estimates for the sector, to arrive at our price estimate of $154 for Norfolk Southern Corp. This implies a premium of over 10% to the current market price. What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams | Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Research Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own.    