President Donald Trump tweeted about oil prices this morning and now has everyone from oil ministers to the market reacting. Oil prices have been trending higher lately. This is a combination of several factors that include OPEC's oil production cuts, statements from the International Energy Agency (IEA) that the oil glut has subsided, the threat of U.S. military action in Syria and the looming possibility that the U.S. will reinstate sanctions on Iran come May 12.    OPEC recently finished a meeting of its Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee (JMMC), which reviews how well OPEC and its non-OPEC partners are adhering to the production cuts. This meeting took place in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia between 8:30 am and 11:00 am local time. OPEC concluded that compliance with the production cuts is very good overall (measured at 149%) and that the group has made good progress towards reducing the global oil glut. However, stored oil is still higher than before the oil market downturn. OPEC did not give any indication about whether it will seek to end the current production cuts in the second half of 2018 or continue them into 2019. The President's tweet had an immediate impact on the market, sending oil prices down sharply. The President's tweet effectively shifted Americans' perception of the situation. Most Americans understand oil prices through the gasoline prices they encounter at the pump, and they are now noticing that they are paying more to fill their cars. Gasoline prices generally rise at this time of year, for several reasons unrelated to oil prices, but rising oil prices are playing a role. In fact, the Wall Street Journal recently reported that rising gasoline prices will offset the tax cuts for many low-income Americans. Now, Americans will blame OPEC for higher gasoline prices instead of U.S. oil producers or U.S. government regulations that make summer gasoline prices higher.  OPEC oil ministers were not pleased about being blamed for higher oil prices and responded immediately , as reported by Energy Intelligence at the JMMC meeting. The Iraq oil minister retorted that "oil prices are not that high" and the Saudi oil minister explained that "there is no such thing as an artificial price" and that "markets determine prices." The UAE oil minister, who is currently serving as OPEC president, said in response to the President that "OPEC is just doing its job of rebalancing the market." Russia, which is not part of OPEC but is participating in the production cuts, responded as well. The Russian oil minister told Bloomberg TV that "The market is what sets the price." He also invited U.S. Energy Secretary Rick Perry to an upcoming energy forum in St. Petersburg to further discuss the energy situation. 