Speculation is rising over whether President Donald Trump will decide to re-instate economic sanctions on Iran. The deadline for his decision is supposed to be May 12. For more than two years, the President has said this is “the worst deal ever,” but lately he and has administration have kept everyone guessing about what they will do. And they have sometimes been quite cryptic. The President almost teased the press during his Tuesday press conference with French President Emanuel Macron, when he said, “nobody knows what I’m going to do on the 12th.” And perhaps that speculation is just what President Trump wants . Originally, sanctions were lifted after the Obama administration led a team of six nations in negotiations with Iran to incentivize Iran to end its nuclear weapons plans. The deal, reached in the summer of 2015, is called the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Its purpose, ostensibly, is to improve global safety by preventing a prime supporter of terrorism (the Iranian government) from becoming a nuclear power. The newly confirmed secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, will surely discuss this security issue when he visits Israel and Saudi Arabia this weekend. However, the economic aspects of the deal are also crucial, and we are seeing these economic elements play out as we anticipate the President’s decision. Impact on Short Term Oil Prices If the President reinstates sanctions, about one million barrels of oil per day could be taken off the global market. The result would be higher oil prices, even though that one million barrels only accounts for less than 2% of global oil production. The psychological impact of limited exports from Iran would be enough for hyper-aware traders. However, there has been much speculation over the last few weeks that the President would reinstate sanctions, and, as a result, the price of oil has already risen. In fact, the markets may see a greater swing if the President does not act, as the price would fall. Impact on OPEC, Saudi Arabia and Russia Saudi Arabia is one of the countries most aggressively trying to convince the President to be tough on Iran. (Israel is the other). Saudi Arabia’s main objective is security, as it sees Iran as a regional threat, primarily through Iran’s expansionist efforts with proxy forces in Syria and Yemen and with partnerships in Iraq. However, renewed sanctions on Iran would also make it easier for OPEC (the oil cartel in which Saudi Arabia is the most powerful member) to meet its self-imposed production quotas. OPEC and other major oil producing countries (most notably Russia) currently have an agreement to keep prices up by limiting their own production at least until the end of the year. If Iran is prevented from exporting as much oil as it has been, OPEC will more easily meet its targets. Saudi Arabia will also have an easier time convincing all of its partners, including Russia, to extend the quotas into 2019. This is critical to keep the price of oil up. Impact on Iran’s Economy Iran’s government cannot afford more bad economic news. The country experienced serious protests in January of this year which were largely predicated on economic complaints. Sporadic protests continue to appear around the country over economic grievances. The indecision, ambiguity or deception coming from the White House on this decision has already significantly damaged the Iranian economy. Oil traders are already unwilling to sign agreements for Iranian oil and products after the May 12 deadline. There are many factors that go into the President’s ultimate decision here: how will his decision effect upcoming negotiations with a more dangerous North Korea; has Iran demonstrated a commitment to complying with the JCPOA; how can the U.S. help protect its allies in the Middle East, notably Israel and Saudi Arabia; how can the U.S. pursue its own interests and be a good partner with European allies and can the U.S. cause enough harm to Iran’s government to effectuate change? As he said, no one knows what the President will do. And that’s just how he wants it.