After three years of trying to get his startup off-the-ground, there were times when Evgeny Likhoded nearly lost hope. Working from home, with only his two cofounders for company, completely running out of money not once, not twice, but three times, and only being saved by some lucky last-minute cash will do that to anyone. “Could I really live on little or no salary? Well, when you're dedicated, you're able to adapt,” Likhoded told Forbes. Today the entrepreneur is celebrating, having closed a $5 million fundraise for his business ClauseMatch, led by Index Ventures—one of Europe’s leading venture capital funds.    Launching a startup in the very unsexy field of regulatory compliance was never going to be easy, but Likhoded told Forbes in an exclusive interview that even he didn’t realize just how hard it would be. From fixer to founder The opportunity was obvious for Likhoded pretty much from day one. As law graduate from Exeter, he started his career in the European legal and compliance departments of Russia’s energy giant Gazprom and investment bank Morgan Stanley. “Negotiating contracts or dealing with regulatory issues all comes down to admin work, and a lot of admin work means working on high-value documents,” Likhoded explained in his light Russian accent. Some derivatives contracts he worked on would govern the trading of trillions of dollars. But the would-be founder saw two problems, firstly that most contracts were still being shared, edited and amended as Word or Excel files, sometimes with multiple versions being edited by hundreds of people. And secondly, all the discussion and decisions around changes being made to documents happened via email, where no one could find it. Google Docs and Office 365 may have solved these problems for the rest of us, but in compliance when you need audit trails and detailed version controls that can span across hundreds of contributors, they simply aren’t up to the task. Likhoded tried to fix things from the inside—building a Wikipedia-like website at Morgan Stanley to share knowledge on the negotiation of contracts—but in 2012 he realized the only way to really solve the problem was to go it alone. Meet ClauseMatch ClauseMatch is his solution, a kind of Google Docs on steroids. It provides the kind of real-time document collaboration that you or I are used to, but supercharged with the additional features that corporate risk and compliance teams need. It wasn’t an easy ride: things moved at a snail's pace for the first three years of the company’s life and the lone trio of founders repeatedly ran out of cash. “When you’re in that situation you find your limits, and you find your limits are actually much higher than you thought,” said Likhoded. “I had this complete belief and trust that, no matter what, we were going to be successful.” Today that sheer belief is paying dividends. Barclays recently made ClauseMatch compulsory for “all Global Policies and Standards for the Barclays Group” as part of a commercial deal with the startup. Likhoded says his company, which has now grown to 33 staff, is also in testing with another “top-tier bank”. Now with fresh funding in place, Likhoded has lofty goals of taking ClauseMatch beyond the compliance departments of banks and into the big pharma, energy, telecoms and insurance sectors. Likhoded has ambitious goals but, after all he’s been through, he doesn’t seem phased. 