In the UK, climate related risk has moved from the NGO agenda to that of asset managers. A recent survey reported that fund managers believe International Oil Companies (IOCs) will be negatively revalued within a few years due to climate change related risks. According to the report from the UK’s Sustainable Investment and Finance Association (UKSIF) and the Climate Change Collaboration, 90% of fund managers expect at least one risk to impact significantly the valuation of IOCs within 2 years. The three main risks that are under discussion are: There are also risks associated with the energy transition – such as the increasing competitiveness of alternative energy technologies leading to a drop in demand for fossil fuels and a shift in market sentiment as investors lose faith in IOCs ability to transition in a financially successful manner. In all, 89% of managers agreed that these and other transition risks would impact valuations of the IOCs ‘significantly ‘ in the next 5 years. Perceptions of these risks have increased dramatically in the last twelve months. Since last year there has been a doubling of investors that see transition risk significantly impacting IOCs in 5 years. 62% see peak demand for oil impacting valuations within five years and peak demand for gas impacting valuations within 10 years. A large majority of fund managers – 71% - have not decided if they believe fossil fuel companies are able to make a transition to a zero carbon economy. This raises the question of whether they will make that decision within the timeframe that they expect fossil fuel company valuations to change. Managers identified two main barriers to creating new fossil fuel free investment products. The main barrier is lack of demand, which all respondents listed within the top three issues. Concern about deviating from benchmarks was also identified as an issue, with 58% listing it within the top three issues. Alongside the current lack of demand for non-fossil fuel investment products though, 71% of managers reported an increase in client interest in the area over the last twelve months. This has resulted in some action. Apparently, 29% of survey respondents said they are asking companies to “exercise capital discipline, pursue an ex-growth approach and return capital to shareholders”, whereas 38% are asking companies to “transition to a zero carbon business and pursue capital and income growth”. While these requirements are being highlighted, neither of these two objectives are to be asked for by shareholder resolutions to fossil fuel companies in 2018. It’s certainly apparent that asset managers are looking to ensure that their investments remain stable but is it likely that other markets outside the UK share the same concerns? Bloomberg recently ran a piece highlighting that despite likely strong forward cash-flows, oil shares are languishing at a 50 year low on the markets. For some, this is an excellent time to buy. For others, it’s a sign of the writing on the wall. The price of oil itself continues to rise, despite promises of production curbs from Russia and OPEC, yet few investors seem to think the long term market is sustainable. Big Oil is investing in new opportunities, from renewable energy to EV’s to hydrogen. But the sums invested remain small in comparison to investment planned in oil and petrochemicals. Shell recently released its Energy Transition Report, outlining plans to invest up to £3.5 billion in conventional oil and gas and another £3.5 billion in oil products and petrochem. Although it is planning on significantly increasing its investment in renewable energy, the sum involved remains far lower, at £1.4 billion. Its actions are based on its Sky Scenario, which outlines a carbon neutral world by 2070. At the same time, the company said that it estimates that 80% of its current proven oil reserves 'will be produced' by 2030, with only about 20% being produced after that. Given that oil valuations are based on oil reserves, this would appear to be a very positive result for the company. Yet at the same time, given Shell's £7 billion planned investment in fossil fuels, when and where is that going to be consumed? Shell's projections seem at odds with analysis done to assess the amount of fossil fuels which can be burned if the world is to stay within its carbon budget - the emissions allowed to 2050 which would allow global temperature increase to stay below 2 degrees Celcius. Carbon Tracker's 2013 analysis suggested that in order to achieve this goal between 60-80% of all coal, oil and gas reserves of publicly listed companies would need to remain within the ground. The total coal, oil and gas reserves listed on the world's stock exchanges - around a quarter of global reserves - equated at the time to around 762 GtCO2. The projected total carbon budget in 2013 for all aspects of the global economy was only 930 GtCO2. Later research from University College London agreed, with a 2015 paper saying that a third of global oil, half of global gas and 80% of coal would need to stay in the ground. The question, as ever, remains to what extent Shell, it its compatriots like Chevron and Exxon, have really understood how the market (and perceptions of the market) are changing, and the extent to which they are prepared to face that change. 