In terms of psychological impact, Ford's decision to stop selling cars in the U.S. except for Mustang is reminiscent of when the Detroit Three deep-sixed iconic but superfluous brands over the last several years, including Mercury, Plymouth, Pontiac and Oldsmobile. Just 10 years ago, some of these same Ford car models -- Fusion, Focus and Fiesta -- were the pride of the company's fleet, the answer to $4-a-gallon gasoline. Just two years ago, domestic production of Focus was deemed so important that it was one of the biggest rhetorical footballs in the 2016 presidential campaign. Ford CEO Jim Hackett is dropping them now for at least six reasons. Hackett had to say goodbye to cars in part to: Satisfy doubters. One big reason Hackett's predecessor, Mark Fields, was broomed last year is that investors had lost faith in him as the stock price plummeted nearly 40 percent on his watch. Investor murmuring also had started to build around Hackett's performance and the perception that, although only a year into the CEO's job, he hadn't done enough, quickly enough, to shake things up. He talked a lot about the need to establish "financial fitness" at the company, but until this week mostly Hackett had been trimming around the edges. The dramatic move he just announced may ease that investor impatience (although the stock didn't get an immediate jolt). Small cars long have been unprofitable for Detroit, but were necessary for other reasons. Also, Ford no longer will have to finance development of a money-losing type of vehicle. Along with reducing operating costs and cutting capital expenditures in the short term, the move will "feed the healthy parts of our business and deal decisively with the areas that destroy value," Hackett told analysts this week in explaining his strategy. "It's been easy to identify what's wrong and what we need to do about it. The handwringing maybe that has been around our business is gone. We're starting to understand what we need to do and make clear decisions there." Move with huge market shifts. One of them is Americans' hard shift toward trucks, SUVs and crossovers and away from traditional sedans. The sales ratio sits at about 60 percent-40 percent now, the reverse of just a few years ago, and is headed higher. The embrace of these vehicle forms by millennials, who are aging and starting families, is the last straw for a product format that had gotten the industry through its first century. By 2020 Ford plans for nearly 90 percent of its vehicles sold to be a truck, SUV or commercial vehicle. The other change in the market, which could end up being even more consequential, is the industry's move toward autonomous vehicles. Most analysts believe that Ford is trailing General Motors in this important arena, not to mention some luxury makers and the biggest Japanese automakers. This is an area where Hackett can't afford to miss the sea change: He must at least keep Ford competitive as the industry's future sorts itself out. "Keep up" with Fiat Chrysler. Embarrassingly so, Ford has been finding itself trailing FCA in zigging and zagging at the right times lately, and Hackett needed to put a stop to that. Ford has always been No. 2 in Detroit, viewing Chrysler as a dysfunctional little cousin. But FCA's profit margins have been outpacing Ford's for a while now. And Fiat Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne has made some decisive moves over the last few years that Hackett seems now to be following. Marchionne axed general-market domestic sedans a couple of years ago when they weren't selling -- even the company's newest models, a revamped Chrysler 200 and Dodge Dart, weren't that good. True, FCA moved partly out of product weakness, but the strategic gambit has proven to be a good one, as the company's reliance on Ram and Jeep -- and the new Chrysler Pacifica minivan -- has paid off. Also, it was a few years ago that Marchionne made the decision to pare the Dodge brand essentially down to a couple of retro muscle cars in Challenger and Charger; Ford's car lineup, only Mustang (Focus will become a sort of crossover hybrid), soon will look a lot like that. Also, Hackett felt the freedom to make the move in part because of: The success of EcoBoost. Beginning over a decade ago, Ford sank a lot of engineering resources into a line of engines it calls EcoBoost, smaller-displacement engines with the power of larger-displacement powertrains -- but without an accompanying hit to fuel economy. EcoBoost engines are popular with the company's SUV customers because they enable them to get what amounts to six-cylinder power for the price, and with the fuel econom, of a four-cylinder engine, and likewise with a six-cylinder EcoBoost arrangement instead of an eight-cylinder engine. While EcoBoost was great to help sell Fusions and Tauruses, it's even more of an advantage in selling utility vehicles that consumers fear might not be fuel-efficient. At the same time, Ford also is hedging its fuel-economy bets with all new models by planning to produce electrified versions of them. That will give Ford a way to buffer against any rise in gas prices and also a counter to the fuel demands of larger vehicles. Also, if EVs begin to prove much more popular with American consumers than they have so far, Ford will be covered. The promise of quiescent gasoline prices. Some economists are nervous about the oil-market recovery with prices around $70 a barrel. But the success of fracking and the historic surge in U.S. oil production since the price spike in the mid-2000s makes it less likely that oil will spike over $100 again, giving Hackett confidence that eliminating fuel-efficient cars -- gas-sippers that Ford had worked to hard to come up with -- won't come back and bite the company in the butt. A prosperous world economy, and the success of OPEC's coordinated output cuts, mean that upward pressure on oil prices is likely to continue. But analysts believe that every party's best interests is in keeping them in a range where they won't harm burgeoning economies around the globe. And if things get hairy, the answer for the American economy could be as simple as some jawboning of oil and gas producers in North Dakota, which is a lot easier than navigating the geopolitical minefield in the Middle East that controlled world oil prices in the old days. The new models already in the pipeline. Obviously, Hackett's move would be a lot tougher if the cupboard were bare of non-sedans. But Ford just introduced a new compact crossover, EcoSport, based on the Focus; is having great success with new versions of its hulking, high-profit Ford Expedition and Lincoln Navigator SUVs; and plans the debut of entirely new versions of the Escape and Explorer next year, models which, combined, make up 70 percent of Ford's SUV volume. It also plans to add five all-new SUVs over the next two years, along with the 2019 Ranger mid-size pickup that debuted at the Detroit auto show in January. Meanwhile, Ford expects its F-150 pickup-truck line to continue to hold down its position as America's best-selling vehicle, even as General Motors and FCA plan to introduce freshened versions of their own trucks this year. Even in the brave new world of Ford's transformed product line-up, F-150 remains the key. 