For much of the month, 14 members of the oil cartel OPEC and 10 non-OPEC producers have been basking in the satisfaction of ever strengthening crude prices, having collectively taken 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd) out of the global supply pool at least until 2018 if the current agreement holds. This week, the Brent front month futures contract - considered the world's proxy benchmark - touched a three-year high capping price levels not seen since November 2014. That's after a Reuters news agency exclusive, citing three well placed "senior industry sources" claimed that OPEC dove Saudi Arabia would be happy to see crude prices rise to $80 or even $100 a barrel, ahead of the Aramco IPO, which the market has been repeatedly told is coming since what seems to be an eternity. When I queried the plausibility of such a stance in the Saudi corridors of power with my sources in the Riyadh, no comments were forthcoming bar quips with unabashed glee that the Kingdom, and indeed OPEC, have "no price target", and that no decision had been taken yet to roll over the cuts beyond 2018. Reinforcement of the bullish sentiment came at the conclusion of the Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee (JMMC) meeting on Friday (20 August) in Saudi Arabia, where OPEC and non-OPEC producers participating in the cuts led by Saudi Arabia and Russia reaffirmed their rigorous enforcement of the move. Based on the figures released, it seems the cuts are within touching distance of 2.7 million bpd, well above the pledged 1.8 million bpd, as Venezuela's production continues to tank, Angola struggles and Libya remains uncertain. All of it was primed to end on a note of 'crude' satisfaction. None more so for the hedge funds and money managers piling into the oil market in their bid to extend the recent geopolitical risk-driven gains further, hoping the rally becomes a sustained one. Alas U.S. President Donald Trump had other ideas. With a signature early morning tweet in Washington D.C., the President declared: “Looks like OPEC is at it again. With record amounts of Oil all over the place, including the fully loaded ships at sea, Oil prices are artificially Very High! No good and will not be accepted!" The market response, as you'd expect, was near instantaneous, puncturing a week-long rally. Within 30 minutes of the tweet, Brent futures dropped 0.60% while WTI futures dropped 0.57% in London. Additionally, London-listed ETFS Brent crude fell 1.6%, ETFS WTI crude oil fell 1.93% and ETFS daily leveraged WTI crude oil fell 3.84%. At the time of writing, calmness had returned - with Brent marginally up 0.13% or 23 cents at $74.01 per barrel, and WTI up 0.07% or 5 cents at $68.34 per barrel. That's because traders, including the short-sellers, know oil market sentiment has more meaningful considerations than an angry Trump tweet. Of course, Saudi Oil Minister Khalid Al-Falih's response to Trump's tweet was a peach. At the JMMC, he quipped: "There's no such thing as an artificial price. Markets determine the price." Bit rich, coming from an OPEC member that has been on record saying the impact of shale oil has been "exaggerated", and blamed speculators when the oil price plummeted to lows below $30. Fact of the matter is, OPEC in general and Saudi Arabia in particular is shedding market share at the expense of supporting the price, ceding ground to American producers. The latest Baker Hughes rig count records yet another rise in U.S. rigs, with oil rigs up 5 compared to last week at 820. Furthermore, the count is up 156 rigs from last year's tally of 857, with oil rigs up 132, and gas rigs up 25. So effectively, much of OPEC, barring some exceptions, is selling less oil at a higher price which is not a panacea for their sovereign credit profiles, according to Moody's. The ratings agency's analyst Thaddeus Best says Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries' creditworthiness will remain driven by government responses to economic, fiscal and external challenges rather than the recent rise in oil prices. "Our expectations for the evolution of sovereign credit profiles has not changed with higher oil prices in recent months. The sovereign ratings and outlooks depend on the ability of GCC sovereigns to address structural vulnerabilities and diversify their economies and fiscal revenue sources away from hydrocarbons," Best adds. For the record, Moody's expects oil prices to remain volatile, ranging between $45-65 per barrel, and forecasts average prices of $60 per barrel in 2018 and 2019 before softening to $55 per barrel beyond that. The agency adds, that while Kuwait and Qatar will post single-digit budget surpluses, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Oman will run large fiscal deficits of 5.8%, 10.2% and 9.4% of GDP respectively, despite the greater tailwind from higher oil prices. It also forecasts that the UAE will run a small deficit. So what do they do in such an eventuality? Something, somewhere, has to give sometime because U.S. production, tipped to cap 10 million bpd, is appearing unrelenting. It will beat the headline output of both Saudi Arabia and Russia in 2018, according to the International Energy Agency. In fact, the UAE has quietly increased production in recent months while its peers are cutting. Well-hedged U.S. shale players with viable hydrocarbon plays are being anything but coy. And as I have said on Forbes before, Syria will not raise the geopolitical risk premium further, barring an unlikely direct confrontation between the U.S. and Russia. And if you think Moody’s, and some long-term bears are being overly pessimistic, there is evidence that demand is plateauing. Looking ahead, December 2019 and 2020 Brent futures are trading well below the current price, and the December 2021 contract is roughly 23% below where the current price is at the time of writing. So Trump's tweet is not problematic for OPEC. It is highly unlikely the President would release barrels from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserves - a mechanism available to him - to lower the oil price. With the country awash with oil, it'll make little sense or have many takers. What he might do with the Iran nuclear deal and simple supply and demand permutations might be of bigger concern. Of course, given that 24 of the world's most influential oil ministers were about to mark a satisfactory end to their weekend, and it being disrupted by a Presidential tweet, does have some nuisance or entertainment value depending on your point of view.