By some measuring parameters, the weather has a direct impact on 50% of the world's economic output, and the percentage is even higher when it comes to the energy industry. From offshore oil and gas rig operations to resource shipping, high voltage power lines to drilling site management, industry players have for decades been reliant on weather forecasts. But these days, by harnessing computing power and data science, near pinpoint accuracy in weather forecasting is helping operators enhance safety and manage disruption times down to levels few imagined as recently as 10 years ago. "That's the fusion of digitization and data science, and the advancement in point-to-point sensor technology for you," says Donat Retif, Chief Executive Officer of MeteoGroup, a global private weather forecasting and analysis outfit. The company – owned by New York-based private equity group General Atlantic since 2013 – is more recognizable as the provider of weather data to broadcasters such as the BBC, RTL and EuroNews among others. And Retif says broadcasting services being the "sexy" side of MeteoGroup's business, often make the company's crucial "life and cost saving" business to business (B2B) client operations go under the radar. "We serve multiple sectors including transportation, shipping and offshore. All three come into focus as far as the energy supply chain goes. Reliable weather information is mission critical for such clients. "For instance, when you talk about oil and gas rigs, by definition you talk about harsh working conditions. Weather windows impact everything from shift patterns to rig activity, fleet helicopters to support ships. "So, here we provide forecasts on time-specific weather windows often using state-of-the-art sensors, mapping and information over shorter spaces; something that's quite unlike what you see on TV broadcasts, where forecasts are made over larger distances. "For B2B customers, the projects we undertake are much bespoke. So we know exactly what they need and all the operating variables are all known. Technology, data science and computing, underpinned by over 100 meteorologists we employ, then comes into play offering near pinpoint, almost 99.8% accurate, forecasts for stated weather windows as and when required. "Our typical energy sector clients are the oil majors, and offshore project sponsors, and candidly speaking – lives depend on the accuracy of weather forecasts." Retif says the take-up of MeteoGroup's services by the energy industry is growing exponentially. "The oil price decline that started in 2014, and at one point threatened to drag Brent crude down to sub-$30 per barrel prices, brought yet newer clients to our doorstep, including independents and midcap energy sector operators. "It made operators even more sensitive to taking rigs on and offline. They needed weather information first and foremost for safety, followed by fast accurate forecasts on the duration they would need to keep rigs running (or not). The information we provide has reduced the time rigs are kept offline, nature permitting. "Our client base extends from the North Sea to the Gulf of Mexico. We are truly global, and our personnel are available 24-7/365 days a year. Physically, we are in 17 countries and counting, and the beauty of technology is that we do not need to be in a particular country to offer our services there." The service provision extends from feeding weather data and information to onshore centralized control hubs of energy companies to feeding it through directly to decision-makers on offshore or site facilities. "We don't just use the established European and American forecasting models and benchmarks; we also have our own proprietary model to make predictions more specific and precise for multi-million dollar projects, at a time when the weather is getting more and more unpredictable and is making its impact felt on profitability within the energy sector and beyond." Overall, weather forecasting is still a nascent business, Retif admits, but adds that it is growing faster than a lot of people imagine. "Ultimately, it is all about providing scientific solutions, and managing relationships and expectations. What the BBC would want is very different from what BP or Maersk Oil would ask us to do. "For the likes of BP or Maersk, our services would be all about accuracy, speed, and scientific detail, presented to people with a background in oceanography, meteorology, engineering, and the like, with a very specific geographical space in view. "If you talk to broadcasters – quite literally our most visible clients – it's all about generic information provision mixed with visual appeal and entertainment thrown in the mix put forward by a smart presenter. The quality of the data is not inferior in any way, but it is not as critical as it would be for transportation fleets and offshore operators." Whichever you look at it, Retif says his business is well positioned for the next phase of digitally enabled weather forecasting. "The next five years are going to be exciting. As the global economy gears up for Industry 4.0, or the fourth industrial revolution, we are investing heavily in technology as a service provider to accompany players on that journey as weather impacts everything." Investment dollars aside, the company also keeps itself on its toes by maintaining a regular dialogue with global universities, national meteorological offices and scientific bodies, because it "wants to constantly be in touch with what the intellectual side of the business is saying." Looking to the immediate future, the MeteoGroup boss predicts a doubling of his annual corporate revenue in a "matter of years" from its current level of around $70 million, but also thinks consolidation in the sector is inevitable. "We are the global weather authority and have come a long way from our founding in 1986. There is a lot of competition out there, but not a lot of serious competition. The investment required to do what we do is substantial. "By that token, you will see consolidation in the sector of the three to four main B2B weather companies because it makes a lot of sense for us to get together. Our planet is huge, but meteorology is a small world."