Analysts expect U.S. auto sales slowed down again for the month of April, more in line with expectations for the full year, following a better-than-expected sales month in March. J.D. Power and LMC Automotive said in a forecast for April 2018 published today that auto sales would be down about 8 percent from a year ago, to about 1.3 million vehicles. The decline comes despite a big increase in incentive spending. That was roughly in line with a forecast on Wednesday from Edmunds.com, based on shopping earlier in the month. Jessica Caldwell, Edmunds executive director of industry analysis, called April a “solid” month, and “more of a true indicator of where sales are trending for the year.” Negative influences for U.S. auto sales include a volatile stock market, rising interest rates, rising oil prices, and potential trade conflicts, said Thomas King, senior vice president of the Data and Analytics Division at J.D. Power. The 8 percent decline in the J.D. Power and LMC Automotive forecast is in unit sales, including fleet sales. The firms say it’s more accurate to look at retail sales to individual customers, not counting fleets, and to take into account the number of official “selling days” in each month, not counting Sundays and holidays. By that measure, April 2018 had 24 selling days, vs. 26 days in April 2017. Adjusting for that, J.D. Power and LMC said the daily selling rate would be roughly flat, down just 0.1 percent. U.S. auto sales were better than expected in March, at almost 1.7 million cars and trucks combined, up 6.4 percent from March 2017, according to the Automotive News Data Center. Market share continues to increase for the truck category, which includes crossover vehicles that look like a truck in terms of styling and ride height, but drive like a car in terms of ride and handling, and better gas mileage than previous generations of trucks. Through the first quarter, trucks accounted for about 68 percent of U.S. auto sales year to date, up from 63 percent a year ago. Car sales were down 10.7 percent in the first quarter to about 1.5 million, while truck sales were up 9.5 percent to 2.5 million, Automotive News said. Note: Contributor Jim Henry, a freelancer, also writes for Automotive News. 