It's earnings season in the oilfield services industry, and so far so good: Schlumberger and Baker Hughes, a GE company, both reported higher first-quarter earnings over last year, meeting or beating analysts' expectations. Kurt Hallead, a longtime oilfield services analyst at RBC Capital Markets in Austin, thinks the time is right to get back into these stocks. He said money is flowing back into energy, noting RBC equity strategist Lori Calvasina saying this week that large-cap energy stocks have started to outperform and that "sector rotation" may be underway. The analyst is encouraged by global inventories dropping significantly despite an increase in oil production in West Texas' and New Mexico's Permian Basin, mostly due to OPEC and Russian production cuts along with strong demand. He also is enthused by Saudi Arabia talking about $80 to $100 oil. "We can't say it loudly enough: The Saudis are the Fed of the oil markets and they will do what is necessary to help balance the markets," he said. Hallead also noted that the upward shift in the WTI futures curve – with the 2018 curve 21% higher than a year ago and the 2019 curve 13% higher – is telling investors that global oil supply-demand dynamics are improving. "The fundamentals support higher OFS [oilfield services] stock prices," he said. "Now all we need is positive Ebitda revisions." The entry point also may be good. Hallead notes the OIH oil services index has rallied 14% this month after falling off 8% in the first quarter and is up 3.8% so far this year. The analyst notes that land drilling, which is dominated by Helmerich & Payne, Nabors Industries and Patterson-UTI Energy, has the best industry structure but is the most underappreciated. Hallead did add the following industry caveats: That fracking service fundamentals are solid but multiples have been squeezed on new capacity fears; that frac sand is in "multiple-compression purgatory" due to lingering concern about excess Permian frac sand supply; and that the pace and magnitude of a turnaround in international activity and offshore drilling and services are still in question. So where should investors put their money? Hallead has six potential candidates. In the large-cap universe, the analyst likes two companies: Halliburton, which has outperformed the OIH index for 11 of the past 13 years and is a place for investors "to play" in U.S. frac; and Schlumberger, which has outperformed the index 10 out of 13 years and should benefit from prospective money flows in the third and fourth quarters of this year in anticipation of an international market recovery. Among the mid-caps, Hallead likes Patterson-UTI, the number-two U.S. land driller and a top five frac player whose stock is down despite upward revisions to its Ebitda (which should drive the stock); and Cactus, which has a high return on capital and no debt and will benefit from new well drilling and increased frac activity. ProPetro Holding and NCS Multistage Holdings are the analyst's small-cap picks. He said ProPetro is the only publicly traded pure play on Permian frac and that its upside is in Ebitda growth through new capacity additions given the squeeze on multiples. And NCSM has a niche business model that offers differentiated growth, its driver being an increase in hybrid completions of oil wells using its sliding sleeve and stimulation services. "Moral of the story: It pays to be an active money manager in oil services," he said.