Billionaire Paul Foster looks to be the biggest financial winner in the megadeal announced this morning to combine Marathon Petroleum and Andeavor into the nation’s biggest oil refiner. Foster founded Western Refining and last year sold it to Andeavor (formerly called Tesoro) for $6.4 billion. The El Paso-based Foster has been steadily selling Andeavor shares but still has 6.5 million of them, according to SEC filings. Marathon is offering Andeavor holders 1.87 shares of stock or $152.27 per share in cash, a 24% premium over last week’s close. That makes Foster’s cache worth $988 million, contributing the lion’s share of his Forbes-estimated net worth of $1.76 billion. Not bad for a guy who got his start in the oil fields as a teenager welding pipes, digging ditches and cleaning tanks. The Baylor graduate and CPA handled the books for a number of small refineries across the Southwest before he and partners took over bankrupt El Paso Refining in 1992, which led to the creation of Western. Back then there was no telling the renaissance that would come to the oil-rich Permian basin of West Texas and New Mexico, where Western’s assets were focused. Andeavor CEO Greg Goff will become executive vice chairman of Marathon. He has roughly 760,000 shares, worth about $120 million. When he took over management of Tesoro eight years ago its stock was trading below $14.    Gary Heminger, the longtime CEO of Marathon Petroleum, who spun the company out of Marathon Oil in 2012 and will lead the combined companies, has shares worth about $230 million. Heminger, 64, is a lifelong Marathon man, having started work at the company as a records storage clerk 43 years ago. He led the refining giant’s spin out from upstream-focused Marathon Oil in 2011, and has since laid out $2.8 billion to acquire 1,200 filling stations from Hess and $14 billion to absorb pipeline operator MarkWest into its midstream division. Since the spinout, Marathon Petroleum has bought in about $10 billion of shares; two years ago I profiled Marathon in Forbes as one of “America’s Best Employers.” The newly combined company will be the biggest refiner in the nation, processing 3 million bpd at 16 refineries spread across the country and selling fuel via 7,800 branded filling stations. Add up the shares of Marathon plus Andeavor to the value of their midstream master limited partnerships (which will continue to trade separately as MPLX and ANDX) and the whole operation will have an enterprise value of roughly $90 billion. According to a morning note from analysts at Tudor, Pickering & Holt, “We do not foresee any regulatory problems given the disparate geographical markets of each company.” According to analyst Sam Margolin of Cowen & Co., the heart of the industrial logic behind this deal is the $1 billion in synergies Marathon says can be unlocked via increased operational scale and leverage. Assuming the deal goes through, America’s longtime refining leader Valero Energy will drop to the number 2 spot with 2.6 million bpd of processing capacity. Then it’s ExxonMobil with 1.7 million bpd, Phillips 66 (itself spun out of ConocoPhillips) with 1.9 million, then Shell and Chevron with about 900,000 bpd each. The single biggest refinery in the U.S. is located in Port Arthur, Texas. and owned by Saudi Aramco via its Motiva division. It handles more than 600,000 bpd. Amid rising oil prices and strong demand for fuels, it’s a fine time to be an American oil refiner. Shares in Marathon are up more than 50% in the past year, while Andeavor shares have risen 75%. Spurred by record domestic oil production surpassing 10 million bpd, U.S. exports of finished petroleum products have more than doubled in the past decade to 3.6 million bpd. 