It's a busy Merger Monday in deal-making land and a large transaction in the refining industry came to light: Marathon Petroleum's purchase of Andeavor for $35.6 billion. The combination will create a refining giant in the U.S. with 15% of the country's capacity and little geographic overlap to upset regulators. The deal is leading investors to wonder: Who could be next in this consolidating industry? Andy Lipow has a few ideas. His consulting firm, Houston-based Lipow Oil Associates, has provided market trend analysis to petroleum refiners, terminal operators, product traders and hedge funds for more than three decades. His top three picks, in order, are CVR Refining, HollyFrontier and Delek US Holdings. They're all smaller refiners that could help the big industry players expand their reach, as Andeavor is doing for Marathon. CVR, which counts Carl Icahn as its biggest shareholder, owns refineries in Kansas and Oklahoma along with pipelines, crude oil transports and gathering tank farms and 6.4 million barrels worth of crude oil storage capacity. It has a market capitalization of around $2.5 billion. Lipow doesn't see Valero as a buyer of CVR, as there would be overlap between their two portfolios. However, that wouldn't be the case with PBF Energy, whose refineries are in Delaware, New Jersey, Ohio, Louisiana and California. He also thinks PBF would like to compete with Marathon on a national basis and an acquisition of CVR would help it do that. HollyFrontier is considerably bigger than CVR, with a market capitalization of $10.9 billion and refineries in Kansas, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Wyoming and Utah. It could find a suitor in the growth-minded PBF, but it could also be buyer of CVR, which would make it a stronger midwest player, Lipow said. Finally, there's Delek, which has a market capitalization of $4 billion. It has refineries near West Texas' and New Mexico's Permian Basin. The area has become known as bottleneck central with all the new oil supplies coming on line, leading to lower prices – and better margins – for Delek. Earlier this month Goldman Sachs cited Delek as a potential takeover target, building a 15% probability of M&A into its $50 per share valuation for the company. It could be scooped up by PBF or HollyFrontier. There are also several refineries on the block that could be picked up by one of these players, Lipow noted, including those by Petrobras (in Pasadena, Texas, which some think could fetch $500 million), Royal Dutch Shell (in Martinez, California) and Citgo (it has facilities in Texas, Louisiana and Illinois). The one company that Lipow doesn't think will participate in any refinery M&A is Exxon Mobil, which has said it wants to expand its refinery in Beaumont, Texas, to handle increasing production from the Permian. Delek would just be too small, he says. 