This summer is expected to be the most expensive driving season since 2014, according to the Associated Press. With crude oil prices at a three-year high, this will translate to higher gas prices. “The economy is better than it has been in more than a decade, not just in the U.S., but globally,” says Greg McBride, chief financial analyst for Bankrate.com. “Increased demand is driving petroleum prices, starting with oil prices, higher.” In a better economy, people drive more and take more summer vacations, which boosts demand for gas and underscores the move to higher prices, McBride adds. The average gas price in the United States is currently $2.81 per gallon, according to the Oil Price Information Service, which is up from $2.39 a gallon last year. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), gas prices are expected to average around $2.74 a gallon this summer, compared to $2.41 a gallon last summer, reports the AP.    Throughout the entirety of 2018, the average national gas price should average $2.76 a gallon, according to the EIA. “While we all ‘feel’ it by seeing those neon number increase every couple days we drive by the service station, lower income Americans and households living on a fixed income will feel the impact of higher gasoline prices most directly,” McBride says. To quantify the impact, driving 1,000 miles per month in a vehicle getting 20 miles per gallon costs $25 more per month if gas prices were 50 cents higher than the previous year. “Multiply that by two vehicles in the household and the monthly budget gets squeezed by $50,” McBride says. “Of course, additional increases in gas prices would only strain those budgets further,” McBride adds. While we cannot avoid rising gas prices, there are some ways to feel less pain at the pump this summer: Slow down “Remember, you’re not Mario Andretti. Slow down. Drive the speed limit,” says McBride. “Don’t floor it when the traffic light turns green and coast toward red lights rather than driving right up to it and then standing on the brakes.” According to GasBuddy, a website and app that allows consumers to find the best gas prices, driving too aggressively can cost drivers an extra $477 per year in fuel consumption, since speeding, braking and rapid acceleration can lower gas mileage by as much as 40 percent. Compare prices “A big tip is to shop smart,” says Allison Mac, a spokesperson for GasBuddy. “Gas prices vary dramatically from street corner to street corner.” Data from GasBuddy suggests that the average spread in any given city is 34 cents on a gallon of gas. In some markets, like Los Angeles and Washington, D.C., the spread is as much as $1 a gallon. Using the free GasBuddy app, drivers can view real-time prices of gas stations nearby to make decisions about the cheapest place to fill up. In addition, drivers might want to avoid gas stations located on major intersections or right off the highway, which tend to have higher prices. “Knowing that people are willing to pay for convenience, gas stations are paying for that valuable real estate and passing that on to the consumer,” Mac says. “Often times, driving a fraction of a mile off the popular roads can save you big.” Change your habits Drivers tend to frequent the same gas stations time and time again, but it’s helpful to periodically assess whether your stations are giving you the best deal. After using an app like GasBuddy to identify stations with lower prices, you might want to change your course to reap savings over the long haul. Get a gasoline rewards credit card Gasoline rewards credit cards can earn you up to a 5% rebate on gas prices, as well as a 1% rebate on everyday purchases, according to LowCards.com. There are also some current offers, such as Shell Drive for Five® Private Label Credit Card’s discount of 25 cents off every gallon of Shell fuel for the first two months after opening your account. Time your purchases The best day of the week to buy gas, according to GasBuddy, is Monday, followed by Sunday. Thursdays and Fridays are the most expensive days of the week to fill up. For more details, check here.   