To the dustbin of history, that's where this Iran nuclear energy deal is going. " The current Iran deal will not survive under President Trump ," Barclays Capital analysts led by Michael Cohen in New York said in an after-market report to clients on Monday. Trump has hated the Iran nuclear deal since Obama signed it roughly four years ago. New members of his foreign policy team, like John Bolton and Mike Pompeo are both Iran hawks. The revitalized alliance with Israel and Saudi Arabia—no friends of Tehran by any means—means the new leadership in Washington is less inclined to play nice with Iran. "The most important event of the week is today," says Naeem Aslam, chief market strategist for ThinkMarkets in London and a Forbes contributor. "Investors will be watching Donald Trump’s decision on Iran very closely. The spillover effects of this aren’t only going to be limited to Iran, but it will also impact U.S. relations with key allies. Trump should not make any hasty choices that would undo all the hard work done not only by the previous administration but also by other nations as well," he says.    Whatever Trump announces on Tuesday and again on May 12, that announcement will likely mark the beginning of protracted talks with the other signatories of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). The Iran deal is heading to purgatory. Oil hit $70 a barrel yesterday for the first time in years due to the standoff. For BarCap, Trump has two main options. In the more disruptive option, Trump opts not to renew this week's deadline of oil-related sanctions waivers and enforces significant reductions of Iranian oil exports. Bad for Iran, good for oil bulls. Also bad for Europe, which has become a big importer of Iranian crude. The neater option is that Trump restates his disdain for the JCPOA, but allows the waiver to go on and Iran can keep shipping oil. This deal buys time as the U.S. is currently busy with nuclear talks in North Korea. A softer line bodes well for North Korea, insofar as they might not feel strong-armed like Iran. The second option is good for Iran, and bad for oil bulls. "Oil prices would likely fall in the benign scenario, but either [scenario] would fuel already elevated tensions in the Middle East, especially between Iran and Saudi Arabia, with spillovers to Iraq, Syria, and Yemen," Barclays analysts wrote. The geopolitical consequences of a dismantling of the deal would likely play a larger and long-lasting role in pushing oil prices much higher. How to Play the Oil Rally A rise in Persian Gulf-related geopolitical risks has helped fuel double-digit gains in oil all year, BlackRock Investment Institute noted yesterday. For investors seeking exposure to oil now, it may be better to buy energy-sector equities rather than buy oil outright through pure plays like futures contracts. "Today’s backdrop of heightened Gulf tensions, supply constraints and steady global economic growth is persisting," says Richard Turnill, chief investment strategist for BlackRock. One way to invest in energy stocks is through the SPDR Energy Select Sector (XLE) ETF. Geopolitical tensions in the Middle East could worsen regardless of this week's Iran decision because there are too many players involved, including those working at cross-purposes. The Russians and Chinese want to keep the deal. China is an important part of the North Korea-South Korea peace deal. Saudi Arabia and Israel want Iran brought to its knees. Israel has already threatened to bomb nuclear facilities, going rogue on Washington. Oil supply could also tighten if OPEC extends production cuts in June. The risks to the bull case for oil are a larger-than-expected U.S. shale output or a surprise happy turnout in Iran where all sides agree on the outcome. Clearly that is not the base-case scenario. The U.S. dollar could weigh on oil, too, as a strong dollar almost always means weak commodities. For BlackRock, Iran talks present potential upside for energy companies’ earnings and their stock price as oil tests new highs. Most energy companies have budgeted for mid-$50s oil prices in 2018. This conservative outlook is reflected in share prices today, Turnill says. BlackRock likes exploration and production firms and midstream companies. "We also see some opportunities in emerging market energy stocks," Turnill said, without naming names. The Iran situation gives oil prices a higher floor level. So far, these higher prices have not been a drag on the economy, but investors will watch to see what it means for inflation and the Fed.   