Europe will ignore Trump deserting the Iran nuclear deal. Prediction: It is a precursor of things to come with Russia. This week, when the U.S. opted out of the joint Iran agreement president Obama had signed in cahoots with the major economic powers of Europe, all three of them refused to follow suit. For the U.K., France and Germany, the Iran deal is on. Sanctions that come into place as early as August will be carefully ignored. Companies there will face the risk of big fines. Those fines are no laughing matter. In 2015, BNP Paribas paid a whopping $8.9 billion for breach of U.S. sanctions against Cuba, Sudan and Iran. The case marked the first time a global bank pleaded guilty to violations of U.S. economic sanctions. The sentencing followed BNP Paribas’ guilty plea in July 2015 to conspiring between 2004 and 2012 to violate the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the Trading with the Enemy Act. Georges Dirani, BNP’s general counsel, told the judge, "There’s no question the organization will not tolerate the kind of behavior we have seen in this case." But if Europe is to abide by the agreement made with Iran, and if the U.S. is going to rewind the clock on the Obama deal and reinstate sanctions, how does this not put BNP Paribas and others in jeapordy if they conduct anything like a currency exchange into dollars or so much as fund an auto loan?    Bloomberg's Leonid Bershidsky pointed out in his column on Thursday that the U.S. is already threatening Europe. He noted a tweet by newly arrived ambassador to Germany, Richard Grenell, seen above. It says it all right there. France is in a very tight spot. Its oil giant Total has an oil deal with the Iranians and will be limited as to how much they can ship abroad. They cannot conduct any trading for oil in dollars because exchanging Iranian rials for the U.S. dollar will be sanctioned again starting in August.  Barclays Capital said in a note this week that Europe will likely flip the switch on its 1996 Blocking Resolution. It's an immunization shot against Washington's extraterritorial sanctions, akin to a "get out of jail free" card. They have done this before, as Bershidsky also noted today in his Bloomberg column. The Blocking Resolution was the European Union’s answer to Bill Clinton's Cuba sanctions. It shielded European companies from being sued in a European court. "The regulation wasn’t an empty threat," Bershidsky writes. "It was upheld in 2007 when Austria forced one of its banks to reinstate the accounts of 100 Cubans it had closed while being taken over by a U.S. company. Europe’s stance on Cuba allowed companies such as Spain’s Sol Melia hotel group and France’s Altadis tobacco company to remain major investors in Cuba." See: Iran Nuke Deal Is Dead: What Happens Next? -- Forbes And here is my own prediction on what Europe will obey and what it will ignore: They will use the blocking resolution to protect major European multinationals from the August 2017 sanctions law that threatens the Nord Stream II pipeline connecting Russia to Germany through the cold Baltic Sea. No way is Europe giving that up. That will rub a lot of powerful people the wrong way. France's Engie is involved. Germany's Uniper and Wintershall are stakeholders. So is Royal Dutch Shell of the U.K., meaning all three signatories to the Iran deal are also getting punished for doing business with Gazprom. Gazprom was sanctioned by Obama in July 2014, but not by Europe. Europe relies on Gazprom as its chief foreign source of natural gas. This is particularly true in Germany, where Russian gas accounts for nearly a third of supply. In August 2017, Nord Stream II was placed under discretionary sanctions, which is sort of like sanctions-light. It means a company can proceed, but faces the risk that Treasury may decide to go after them someday. The Trump Administration later added Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller to its sanctions list in February. Worth noting, Exxon was fined a couple million dollars last year just for signing a legal document with Igor Sechin, the sanctioned CEO of oil firm Rosneft. Exxon is disputing the fine. Gazprom and Miller are the latest persona non grata in Washington. But Europe is not giving up on them. Not the French. Not the Germans. Not the Brits, either.  Despite the sanctions against Nord Stream II, the threat has not put a stop to its construction. With the Iran deal being canceled, European leaders impacted by it are likely to be in "enough is enough" mode when it comes to Washington. These extraterritorial sanctions are not in their interests. Washington views that pipeline two ways, one more relevant than the other. The first, more obvious and more benign reason for the sanction is that Nord Stream II is a Russian political weapon against Ukraine. Ukraine was a key transit route for Russian natural gas into Europe. Russia and Ukraine are going through a bitter divorce. And while the European Union is mediator in this mess, it is more wishy-washy on protecting Ukraine than the Americans. So it is the Americans that usually lament the Gazprom pipeline as a threat to Ukraine as a future transit hub. A pipeline connecting Russia to Germany through the Baltic Sea already exists. One is enough, the Ukrainians and Americans believe. The second reason why Washington is going after Nord Stream II is less obvious. It is something for off-the-record conversations among policy wonks and think tankers who have the ears and the pulse of DC bureacrats inside the State Department. The second reason is that Nord Stream II gives Russia an even bigger, cheaper door into Europe. That makes Polish LNG, Lithuanian LNG and, of course, American LNG less attractive. With another pipeline in the works, Europe is less likely to invest in the infrastructure needed to import and store liquefied natural gas. The U.S. has invested already in LNG export and storage terminals. Europe would be a nice, reliable spot to sell it, too. Punishing Europeans for Nord Stream II makes for a good commercial strategy because it places added risk on doing business with Gazprom. Whether that is an intended goal or not, that is precisely what those sanctions do. Germany complained loudly about the sanctions against Nord Stream II when they were announced. Now Germany and others are complaining loudly about the ending of the Iran deal, and its aftermath—the return of sanctions on Iran. If they are going to ignore Iran sanctions and face the risk of lawsuits, they will do the same with Russia, which is much more important to them. 