With the geopolitical risk factor firmly reinstalled into the market, oil prices have risen to four-year highs. Gasoline prices are up nearly 20% in the past year! This is noteworthy because U.S. oil (and gas) production has been soaring to record heights. Thanks to the fact that "U.S. crude oil production efficiency continues to improve," breakeven costs are now "as little as $25 per barrel." In fact, higher U.S. crude production is the key source of global supply that can offset potential supply losses elsewhere. And more drilling activity increases the chances for even more output moving forward. Since the start of the year, the oil rig count has risen 11% to 825, the highest since March 2015. Our main oil field, however, the Permian basin that now accounts for nearly a third of all U.S. crude, faces infrastructure constraints that are making it more difficult to ship to refineries in West Texas, storage tanks, and/or to the Gulf Coast for export. Still, going forward, the Permian is expected to account for 40-50% of our new crude production and total U.S. output could surpass 12 million b/d by 2020. Colliding factors like rising global demand and the OPEC, Russia-led production cuts have helped widened the Brent (international) and WTI (U.S.) oil price spread. The differential has steadily extended since early-March, when the gap was around $3 per barrel. The price of WTI, however, despite surging U.S. crude production, has also been rising. Since the start of the year, U.S. production is up 12% and our crude stocks are up 20 million barrels but WTI is also up nearly 15% . There are doubts though that WTI could stay above $70 for very long, and the Iran nuclear deal JCPOA verdict scheduled for May 12 should serve as an inflection point for oil prices over the short-term. While we've seen predictions for $30 oil and apparently the possibility of $300 oil, the U.S. Department of Energy has been consistent: WTI below $60 this year and next, with Brent keeping a $4 premium. With "no sign that Saudi Arabia or other big producers had boosted output significantly to cash in on higher prices or to compensate for the Venezuelan decline," OPEC compliance just hit another record of 162% in April. Troubled Venezuela's production has collapsed nearly 33% since 2016. A higher Brent-WTI spread has helped U.S. crude exports boom to all time records, and not just to developing Asia: "a flood of cargoes to Europe are expected in the coming months." Usually our exporters can make money if the gap is just $3-4 per barrel, or even below $2 for Houston oil being carried on a very large crude carrier for delivery to Asia. We've more than doubled what the "experts" said was even possible: "Experts say as much as 1 million b/d could be available for export if the economics justify it." Our domestic shale oil boom yields a lighter, sweeter oil that is not necessarily an exact match for our refinery system, largely configured to process heavier crude grades. Such tight oil accounted for 55% of total domestic crude production in 2017 . This has helped our export market flourish. And again, our demand for oil remains very high but buoyantly pretty flat, so surplus barrels have become increasingly common.