Johnson Controls (NYSE: JCI) is slated to post its second quarter results on May 1, wherein a rise in both revenues and earnings is expected. In its first quarter, the company was able to deliver a positive earnings surprise, on the back of impressive organic top-line growth in the buildings segment. The solid growth in this segment can be expected throughout the financial year, given the promising underlying trends. The adjusted EBIT may be negatively impacted as a result of the Scott Safety sale. Despite this decline, JCI’s EPS is expected to improve, helped by the synergies from the Tyco merger and productivity initiatives implemented by the company. We have a $45 price estimate for Johnson Controls, which is higher than the current market price. The charts have been made using our new, interactive platform. The various driver assumptions can be modified by clicking here, to gauge their impact on the EBITDA and price per share metric. Favorable Macroeconomic Environment To Help Johnson Controls Rising GDP across most of the key geographic regions should result in a conducive macroeconomic environment. This positively impacted the company in the first quarter, as well, through the following ways: This encouraging global environment should aid JCI in continued revenue growth momentum through FY 2018. Cost Reduction Measures Will Expand Margins JCI committed to a significant restructuring plan in FY 2017 related to cost reduction initiatives. The costs consist primarily of workforce reductions, plant closures, and asset impairments. The company currently estimates that upon completion of the restructuring action, there will be a reduction in annual operating costs from continuing operations by approximately $280 million, which is primarily the result of lower cost of sales and selling, general, and administrative expenses due to reduced employee-related costs, depreciation, and amortization expense. Such measures will result in an improvement in the margins. Order Growth To Continue In Buildings North America, While Pricing Pressure Will Remain In China What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams | Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Research Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own. 