President Donald Trump announced today his intention to pull out of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), more commonly referred to as the "Iran Deal" or the "Iran Nuclear Deal", thus reversing an agreement made by the Obama Administration. Mr. Trump proclaimed that Iran is the "leading State sponsor of terror... a murderous regime." The President went on to accuse Iran of backing terrorist organizations and proxies around the world. Mr. Trump blamed the previous administration for constructing a poor deal when the U.S. had far better leverage and reiterated his belief the JCPOA will not prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. The entire concept was based on the premise the agreement would prevent Iran from gaining the ability to produce nuclear weapons. Opponents of the deal say the deal only delays the inevitable and does not prohibit Iran from conducting ballistic missile tests nor does the JCPOA prohibit Iran from continuing the country's commercial nuclear program. They also say Iran has been emboldened since the deal and point to Iran's expanded meddling in Syria and Lebanon. Supporters of remaining in the agreement say that while it is not perfect, it would be worse to withdraw from the agreement. The JCPOA is supported by nearly every other U.S. ally as evidenced by visits from German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Macron over the last week. President Macron urged Mr. Trump to remain while also urging him to pursue additional modifications which have, thus far, been dismissed by Iran. The United Kingdom also supports remaining in the deal and that position was expressed by Prime Minister Theresa May to the president via telephone. May also sent Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson who also expressed concern about a new arms race in the Middle East. For his part, French President Emmanuel Macron said there was no "Plan-B." Supporters of remaining in the deal also say that America's withdrawal would send the wrong signal, namely that the U.S. is an unreliable partner- poor timing, they say, in light of ongoing nuclear negotiations with North Korea. President Trump pointed to withdrawal as further proof to North Korea that when he makes a promise, he keeps. Still others said the highly controversial Iran deal was never presented to the Senate for ratification and is therefore only an agreement which does not formerly bind the country as a treaty would have done. The President's decision will have significant implications on businesses. Reimposition of sanctions will automatically "snap back" thereby essentially giving businesses 90 or 180 days to unwind business relationships in the country, depending upon their exact categories. As the JCPOA was initially constructed, negotiators were concerned the UN Security Council would never agree to reimpose sanctions which is why the language was constructed in such a way that makes reimposition of sanctions automatic. The Security Council would have to affirmatively vote not to continue lifting the sanctions. It is not clear however what would occur if another country were to walk away from the deal because negotiators always assumed Iran would be the only one to breach the agreement. One thing is for certain however, and that is that the U.S. will, absent a new agreement, reinstitute sanctions which gives the administration significant leverage. Reimposition of sanctions prohibits any U.S. company from doing business with Iran. More importantly, these sanctions cut off access to U.S. markets for third parties that do business with Iran. Those who attempt to do so absent a waiver could not only face severe Treasury fines, but their assets in the U.S. may be frozen or seized. Some analysts predict this decision will result in short term increases in global crude oil prices, others feel the decision will not significantly impact oil markets as the threat of U.S. withdrawal from JCPOA was already built into the price. It is also worth noting the impacts of President Trump's decision are not completely limited to U.S. companies. As alluded to above, these sanctions can potentially ban any company from conducting business in the U.S. or using the U.S. banking system if they or their European bank of choice conducts business with Iran. According to Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY), these "secondary sanctions" would apply to other countries, including U.S. allies. It may very well be that secondary sanctions will severely punish any company that decides to continue doing business with Iran. Under this scenario, any company could lose the ability to do business in the U.S., essentially cutting off U.S. markets to foreign companies. While it may take days or weeks to fully understand the implications of the president’s decision, only time will tell if his decision will bring parties to the negotiating table, or drive them further away. 