President Donald Trump announced Tuesday that the U.S. will withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal and reimpose the economic sanctions it had lifted under the pact. The decision to pull out of what Trump has labeled "the worst deal ever" should have major consequences for Iran's oil industry, which has raised oil output from 2.7 million barrels per day to 3.8 million since President Obama signed the agreement to lift economic sanctions in return for an end to Iran's pursuit of nuclear weapons. The deal fed a growth in oil exports from 1.1 million bpd during the previous period of sanctions to 2.2 million bpd in March. Iran must have expected Trump's move, because in April they sold all the oil they could, ramping exports to 2.9 million bpd, according to Bernstein Research. William Featherstone, analyst at Credit Suisse, said before the announcement that a snapping back of sanctions on Iran could reduce its oil output by about 200,000 bpd in the near term. But even if Iran had to give up all of its gains and return to pre-deal output levels, don’t expect any lasting oil price spike. That’s because the world remains awash in oil. No doubt OPEC has worked hard to mop up excess inventories in the past two years by restricting output. Global inventories have shrunk from 325 million barrels above 5-year averages down to just 30 million barrels.    But holding inventories is different from holding spare production capacity. In the event that Iranian oil exited the market in a hurry, the Saudis have throttled back enough wells that they are sitting on an estimated 1.7 million bpd of untapped capacity. The Kuwaitis have another 300,000 bpd they could bring back online. If Trump has been listening to his oil guru Harold Hamm, he’d know that it won’t be long before the U.S. could replace a big chunk of Iran’s product with domestic crude. America’s own oil production is on track to hit a record 11 million bpd within a year, with exports already at 2.3 million bpd. Oil and gas consultancy Rystad sees the potential for U.S. oil output to grow beyond 18 million bpd in the coming decade. Thanks to the power of the American oil revolution Trump needn’t worry that killing the Iran deal could cause some sort of oil super spike. The frackers have even been able to help balance out the staggering collapse of Venezuelan oil production (down from 2.1 million bpd to 1.6 million within the past year). With oil rising to multi-year highs over $70, it had gotten a little ahead of the fundamentals, noted Amrita Sen of Energy Aspects last week. Traders seemed to agree, with front-month NYMEX futures selling off to $68 on Tuesday in anticipation of Trump's announcement. Though Sen hadn’t even factored Iran disruptions into her base case oil price forecast, it’s easy to accept that geopolitical risk could be worth a few bucks a barrel. World oil demand is 100 million bpd, of which 18 million in supply floats right past Iran through the Straits of Hormuz. But much more than a couple of bucks? Unlikely. 