The wider belief of many in the oil and gas business about keeping data on premise - rather than on the could - as being somehow safer does not stack up, according to the boss of industrial giant Siemens' rotating and engineering products outfit. Speaking at the Baker McKenzie Oil & Gas Institute in Houston, Texas, USA, on Thursday (10 May), Paulo Ruiz Sternadt, Chief Executive Officer of Dresser-Rand – which designs, manufactures and services equipment used in oil and gas extraction under the Siemens corporate umbrella – said: "Big oil companies are right to be concerned about data security. Cybersecurity is one of the major challenges of the digital age, and millions of dollars are rightly being invested to address it. "However, it has also triggered real worries within the oil and gas sector about storing data offsite, more so compared to other sectors of the economy. Many decision makers we interact with sometimes tend to believe that keeping data on premise is safer than having it on the cloud. I can categorically say that is not true." Data breaches can happen with on premise storage, and cloud computing has progressed in leaps and bounds. Ruiz Sternadt said it was right to be concerned, but if worries about a "manageable" cyber-risk holds companies back, then it would be to their detriment in a changing world. "Look at our parent company – Siemens. Despite being an industrial company, Siemens today is also Europe's second-largest software company, and has made $10 billion in software acquisitions since 2007. That offers a glimpse of where the economy is heading." Proliferation of digital is inevitable, even if some believe the oil and gas sector is a laggard, he added. "From monitoring of critical equipment to back-up support based on real time data analytics, process simulation for testing and personnel training to fully integrated electrical, automation and digital solutions – you'll see incremental adoption of these techniques by oil and gas companies. "That's because, digitization is enabling lower operating expenditure (OPEX). Challenge is to manage data risk and integration, and it's one ourselves and the industry are up for." Ruiz Sternadt also said his company sees the short-term oil price, using Brent as a benchmark, between $60-80 per barrel. "While oil and gas market fundamentals are largely intact, this changed business climate requires adaption, new approaches and technologies to improve OPEX. It's what we are witnessing across the board." 