Last month the “Coalition to Ban Unsafe Oil Trains” held a rally in New Jersey aimed to permanently expel the movement of crude oil by private freight railroads such as CSX Transportation and Norfolk Southern in the state. “About two dozen activists from local environmental advocacy groups called on state lawmakers to pass a bill that would impose measures aimed at protecting communities near the rail line in the event of a derailment.” While two dozen activists may not seem significant, the bill may actually pass in Trenton. Already vetoed twice by former Governor Chris Christie (R-NJ), the proposal to “boost transparency” would require railroads to post their routes and contents online for the general public to view. Sounds good, right? Unfortunately, the bill’s supporters do not want to boost transparency. One need to look no further than the special interest group’s name to determine that they care little about transparency and far more about targeting the movement of commodities already regulated by the federal government.    Even more telling is the absence of support from local police and fire chiefs. After all, these are the groups who would have to respond to an incident. “Transparency Advocates” claim this information is needed to ensure safety, and they are correct. Yet the absence of support from the very people who actually need and can gain access to this sort of information is deafening. So why are these groups not vocally supporting the bill? Because those who need access to this information already have it. The transportation industry already works closely with federal, state, and local law enforcement and first responders. First responder training and knowledge is important, and coordination and training between different levels of government has been enhanced in recent years. The rail industry points to a tool called “AskRail”, developed in concert with national organizations representing first responders. That mobile application lets state and local first responders access rail routes and contents in real time while other state and local officials can also request access to that information. According to the website of the Security and Emergency Response Training Center (SERTC), a public-private partnership located in Colorado, first responders are increasingly trained on hazardous material transportation safety, conducting hands-on demonstrations in addition to web-based certification programs for those unable to travel. While much of this effort has focused on crude oil shipments, we should not forget the railroads have safely moved all sorts of hazmat products for generations. Analysis of Transportation department data shows that while it is not perfect, the rail industry is proficient in moving hazardous materials on its private network, getting 99.99 percent of shipments to destination without incident. Shipments of crude oil by rail also peaked in 2015. By mid-2016, crude shipments had decreased by 45% nationally, according the U.S. Energy Information Agency who said that East Coast Shipments in early 2016 averaging 176,000 barrels per day and those shipments have continued to decline. As of February, 2018, the EIA says that 119,000 barrels per day of crude oil are moving by rail into the East Coast. While this issue may not be new, the risk posed by terrorist organizations and individuals bent on doing us harm certainly is. Disclosing sensitive information should be taken seriously by policymakers and elected officials. According to one report, “al-Qaeda published in its English-language magazine a step-by-step guide on how to derail trains and which train routes that would be best to target.” Transparency only serves the public good when it provides information to us that is both useful and necessary. When it comes to monitoring hazmat shipments by rail, those who need and require the information already have it. At best, New Jersey’s proposed law allowing anyone to check on hazmat shipments will not enhance public safety one iota. At worst however, such a law could be used to undermine public safety.   