With California and 16 other states suing EPA, Tesla’s electric vehicles non-stop in the news, and prices now reaching four year highs, gasoline is clearly on our minds. Gasoline you should know accounts for 15-17% of total U.S. energy demand, and we devour nearly 400 million gallons of gasoline per day. In fact, we consume about 35% of the world’s gasoline. Environmental concerns and government regulations have indeed made finding gasoline substitutes a rapidly growing business. But our reality is that, hardly "going gentle into that good night," U.S. gasoline demand continues to rise. Gasoline, of course, is just one of the "Three Reasons Oil Will Continue to Run the World." Despite oil prices rising by over 15% in 2017, we set a record for gasoline demand, at time when we were supposed to be moving away from it. Electric vehicle sales did jump 25% last year, but still totaled just 200,000 units, compared to over 17,000,000 for oil cars. Production for the much-hyped Tesla Model 3, for instance, was just 9,766 vehicles in the first quarter, well off the pace of 5,000 a week that Elon Musk had targeted by the end of 2017. He might fault "boring, bonehead questions," but the real problem is "Why are electric cars so expensive?" - very problematic during a time when oil prices have been at historic lows. It's not that U.S. gasoline consumption will continually increase, it's just that absolutely reducing usage in any significant way has continually eluded us. Go back a few years to see how predictions about "the end of gasoline" have routinely been proven wrong - even from the best in the business: As for the often promised panacea of increasing efficiency, which is at the heart of the California-EPA fight today, when it comes to lowering our gasoline demand, it has proven to be far better sounding than effective. UC Berkeley's Energy Institute at Haas notes: "Economists have long complained that fuel economy standards are an inefficient way to reduce gasoline consumption:" Ultimately, some products are so indispensable that I recommend skepticism when reading stories about their imminent demise. This is especially true in today's energy business, where some strategize that the smartest path forward is to try and scare away potential investors of those that sell more established competing sources of energy. Their perpetual goal is to make you think that the end of conventional fuels is not just inevitable but "right around the corner." Yet, as stated by researchers Carla Jones and Stephen Mayfield in 2016: "oil is an inelastic product because it is essential to our daily lives and it currently has no substitute." Gasoline obviously, which accounts for nearly 50% of our total oil usage, is the basis of that reality: 