Bad news for some, is good news for others. A case in point is the end of American participation in the Iran nuclear deal. It is certainly bad news for Iran, but it could be quite the opposite for Saudi Arabia. Tuesday saw president Trump announce that the U.S. would no longer be party to the so-called Iran nuclear deal, whereby the Islamic Republic would agree not to develop atomic weapons in exchange for being allowed access to international trade. The decision means that the U.S. will shortly impose sanctions on Iran.    As a result, Iran will almost certainly find it hard to sell its oil -- a vital source of foreign currency for the state. That will be an economic privation. However, the sanctions on Iran will likely be a double benefit to the geographically nearby Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Number 1 In the first place, Saudi's young leader, Mohammed bin Salaman (a.k.a. MBS,) is tirelessly trying to diversify the country's economy away from its long dependence on oil. The centerpiece of that effort is the partial sale of the state-owned oil firm Aramco. If that sale goes well, then the rest of the reforms will stand a better chance of going well also. For Aramco's initial public offering (IPO) to go smoothly, what is needed at a minimum is a robust oil market together with a stable securities market. There's the first piece of good news. The fact that Iran will now be hit by sanctions will mean that there will be less of Iran's oil hitting the global market, and hence there will be higher prices for the liquid energy. To some extent, traders have already anticipated such a situation. Futures prices for light sweet crude have rallied above $70 a barrel recently, on the CME futures exchange. That's up almost three-fold from a mere $26 in February 2016. Prices could go even higher, although such a move would likely be temporary. Still, even a short-lived surge in the oil price would be good if it could coincide with an Aramco IPO. The current state of global securities markets looks in fairly good shape and so investors may respond positively to the offering if the markets stay that way. As they say on Wall Street, timing is everything. It will be particularly so with the Aramco IPO. There is one wrinkle in the whole matter. "Iran might respond by stoking tension in the region, including Yemen, Syria and Lebanon," states a recent report from U.K.-based financial research company Capital Economics. It cites fresh missile attacks on Riyadh, the Saudi capital in the wake of the U.S. decision on the nuclear deal. Number 2 The second piece of good news is that Saudi Arabia has long been the so-called swing producer within OPEC, the oil cartel. The idea of the swing producer is to lift or drop its oil production to ensure that prices don't move either too high or too low to be sustainable. In this case, Saudi will likely opt to produce more oil so that the deficit caused by sanctions on Iran doesn't send crude prices so high that demand is crimped. Producing more oil at a higher price will give the Kingdom more much-needed revenue. Again, the wrinkle is whether Saudi Arabia gets further drawn into the war in bordering Yemen or a new conflict elsewhere in the region. If a major military conflict did erupt there is the danger that Saudi's oil pumping operations could be disrupted. That would not be good for the Kingdom because in addition to equipment damage that would need repairing the country would forego revenue from barrels of oil not pumped.   