The concept of impact investing is hardly new and one that is refreshingly simple. It is simply about funneling investment dollars into companies established with the intention of generating a quantifiable, visible and broadly beneficial social impact alongside a financial return. Advocates of the practice claim it has the power to change lives and are often found exploring ideas and ventures in emerging markets. Being typically accustomed to engaging with private equity companies exploring potential opportunities worth billions in the oil and gas business, and especially the U.S. oil patch now that a period of relatively stronger oil prices is among us, your correspondent was intrigued to come across Bamboo Capital Partners (BCP), a Luxembourg incorporated boutique PE firm, pumping millions premised on impact investing into renewable energy. With a pedigree of having raised $300 million via its funds since 2007 behind it, quite recently BCP launched a new investment platform to deploy an initial $50 million to scale energy access for millions in sub-Saharan Africa and Asia. BCP's Managing Partner Florian Kemmerich says the investment vehicle will target distributed energy service companies (DESCOs). "It extends our impact investing footprint, which is predominantly focused on financial inclusion in emerging markets and lower income populations. Energy poverty is the issue of our age, and we feel alleviating it could be achieved using renewable energy." Kemmerich says developing energy markets are not burdened by legacy infrastructure."In fact, there are parts of sub-Saharan Africa, and many other places in our world that have not even been electrified, let alone have a regular supply of power. "It is here we feel that the legacy of fossil fuels could be skipped by deploying at source generation via solar power." In keeping with such a thinking, BCP's latest investment platform is backing start-up BBOXX and "its data-driven DESCOs, providing off-grid energy to consumers in Africa and Asia, and generate greater impact in their respective markets." BBOXX claims its solar platform brings "machine-learning and customer experience optimization" to rural Africa, and Kemmerich likens its transformative potential to what mobile telephony has achieved in Senegal, where fishermen and traders – in the absence of fixed-line telephony – bypassed it all via mobile phones to connect with the wider market. "Nearly a decade later, the model has spread across Africa progressing beyond telephony straight to mobile money, mobile banking, and so on. New energy companies, new business models have the power to disrupt the power market in a similar fashion helping electrification reach the 'off grid' population. "The conventional method is for someone to produce energy, wire it and then sell it. That is being leapfrogged and changed massively with rooftop power solar energy, locally generated wind energy. In the proverbial 'Industry 4.0' age, we firmly think backing such a drive is what impact investing is all about. In fact, I'd say it has taken the investment community to 'Impact Investing 2.0' too!" Of course, Kemmerich admits there will always be geopolitical and infrastructural challenges. "We tend to stay away from highly regulated markets, and focus on potential commercial markets." At present, the PE firm has investments in 30 markets, deploying private capital to commercial companies benefiting huge populations." "While we have done a lot of investing in India, that's more to do with the size of the serviceable population than anything else. We have no target markets, only target populations, and you'll find us investing in companies spread across developing markets from Rwanda to Honduras, Mexico to Colombia." BCP's funds have been fully regulated in Luxembourg since the firm's infancy, when its was founded by Jean-Philippe de Schrevel over a decade ago, with Kemmerich and fellow partner Val Mendeleev joining the cause later. The trio are all equal level shareholders, and BCP also has a presence in Geneva, Nairobi, Bogota and Singapore. "In its early years, BCP focused on economic inclusion via investing in financial infrastructure. The second phase of our journey involved focusing on impact driven technology and microcredit, and our latest drive now logically targets another very vital investment area – energy, and low income energy poor populations of the world." "While much still needs to be done, thousands of households are being electrified each day with newer members of the human race having access to audio visual equipment, the internet and more. There is a major shift in how energy is being consumed and a direct connection with lifting people out of poverty. "We currently have direct investment in seven different energy outfits – from grid extension to pure retail outfits, and all investments are doing well. Their business models are agile and data driven. Data is more than just an additional tool, but a key driver of the future of companies." While a certain element of risk will never go away, Kemmerich opines that a lot of previous concerns in entering nascent emerging power markets are slowing going away. "We call them Frontier Markets, energy theft is on the decline; and there are opportunities to focus on a pure commercial model where the price point is right, backed up supportive data and technology accompanied by the satisfaction that peoples' upliftment and well being is the end goal." And some risks, says the BCP man, are institutional and not technology related. "Every energy investor must be cognizant of the fact that poor or lower income groups pay much more for energy as a proportion of their income than those on higher incomes. We have to change that by lowering the pricing calibration of energy in the markets that need them the most. So emerging markets can provide an incredible learning curve, where energy is generated locally, paid for locally, and creates wealth locally.” By 2030, there will be 3 billion middle class people in Asia alone. "That's three times the US, five times that of all of Europe, and let's not forget 1.1 billion people on the planet are still without basic electricity. For many, if not all of them, creating energy on the spot, rather than on the grid could be a solution. People need energy. Energy should be more of a service and less of a product to be sold. Our investments are working towards that very objective."