I can't remember a more positive day to be an Exxon Mobil shareholder. In 24 hours, the markets have seen the resignation of New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who had pursued Exxon in federal court, and President Trump's decision to pull the U.S. out of the JCPOA with Iran. Everything's coming up Exxon! Crude oil futures wavered ahead of Trump's press conference, so I am not surprised that Exxon shares are trading down today. What is surprising--and frustrating as a long-term shareholder--is that Exxon shares have underperformed both the broad market and its oil majors peer group during an extended period of rising crude oil prices. I believe Exxon management's capital allocation decisions are the reason for the stock's underperformance. As an income investor, I love Exxon's consistent pace of dividend increases. Exxon will pay it its new, higher quarterly rate of $0.82 per share starting with the first quarter's dividend which is payable to holders of record next Monday. But with an indicated yield of 4.3% on that new dividend rate, it is clear that the market wants more from Exxon than quarterly payments. Apple's announcement last week that it would commit $100 billion to future stock buybacks certainly got the stock market's attention. I hope Exxon CEO Darren Woods and his board were paying attention, too. Exxon de-emphasized share repurchases in 2015, and a company that repurchased $13.2 billion of stock in 2014 only repurchased $747 million last year. That 94% decrease in buyback (the table below has the details) has come as Exxon shares have done nothing. Exxon shares finished trading December 31, 2015 at $77.95 and closed yesterday at $77.73. It's almost as if Exxon shares have slept through the Trump Jump. Yes, the $7.63 in dividends (including the second quarter's upcoming payment) Exxon shareholders have received since the end of 2015 have cushioned the blow of that "non-performance," but not fully. Chevron shares have risen 39% since the end of 2015 and shares of BP and Royal Dutch Shell have both risen more than 50% in that period. Exxon has lagged its peers, and it hasn't been due to prioritizing production growth over cash return to shareholders. Volumes in Exxon's upstream operations fell both sequentially and year-over-year in the first quarter. If CEO Darren Woods can't find oil, he'd best give shareholders that cash back. Doing neither never works, and I, for one, do not give a fig about Exxon's AA+ S&P credit rating. It must be tough to replace a legend, and Woods still walks in the shadows of the Exxon giant affectionately known as "T-Rex," Rex Tillerson. Tillerson's actions during his tenure as Secretary of State may have aided in the replacement of JCPOA (although President Trump's comments make his contribution unclear) and Tillerson's decisions to fight Schneiderman's ridiculous, nuisance lawsuit (Massachusetts is also a party to the suit; its improbable logic states that Exxon misled shareholders by not fully accounting for the impact of carbon taxes that don't exist and other spurious "potential costs" of climate change that have not yet been encountered by any company anywhere, not just oil companies) put Exxon on better footing legally. Woods now has a tailwind that T-Rex never did, and he needs to emulate another legendary CEO, Tim Cook, and begin rewarding Exxon Mobil shareholders.