Leading Mexican presidential candidate Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador should try to avoid repeating the mistakes of other left-liberal politicians, embracing rational economic policy rather than resource nationalism. Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez set the perfect bad example by not just repeating the mistakes of the 1970s, but worsening them. He should have read Terry Lynn Karl’s The Paradox of Plenty which describes in detail the way 1970s Venezuelan President Carlos Andres Perez sought to accelerate the country’s economic development with massive government spending, responding to warnings from long-time bureaucrats by centralizing power in the president’s office. Nearly all the money was wasted. Chavez repeated the same mistakes, but doubled down on them, to Venezuela’s sorrow. It’s worth remembering that Venezuela was considered a mature petroleum province before its apertura, with only the Orinoco heavy oil belt thought able to contribute to higher production. However, when President Caldera and PDVSA president Luis Giusti announced the reform, conventional oil production soared, including in so-called marginal fields that the national oil company had allowed to decline to minimal production levels. The figure below shows how Venezuela was actually exceeding the 'high' forecast assumed by the DOE International Energy Outlook. By redeveloping those fields, more than 500 tb/d of new production was added in just a few years, while overall, the country’s production rose by 1 mb/d over five years, one of the strongest performances in the world. An old Hollywood adage is “Be nice to the people you meet on the way up, because you meet the same people on the way down.” This is often ignored by oil producing governments, who tighten screws on operators when prices are rising and find themselves scrambling to attract investment when prices fall. Partly this reflects the typical belief that oil prices can only go higher, and that the highest recent level is the new norm (or floor), therefore there is no need to make concessions to investors. And when prices are rising, so is revenue and the perceived need to raise production recedes. The problem is that the perceived political risk is higher even if the country is welcoming to private sector investment after prices drop, if the country has previously embraced resource nationalism then reversed policy. The government is naturally seen as less trustworthy and more likely to change policy in the future, to the detriment of investors. Of course, companies do recognize when fiscal regimes have become unfair to producing governments, especially when contracts are not designed with sliding scales relative to prices, so that the operator receives enormous profits when prices rise. This explains why in many cases where unilateral contract or fiscal revisions are made, operators complain but continue working. An effective contract would anticipate price changes and respond to them, reducing risks of unilateral revisions. (Indeed, a 1985 paper by M.I.T. colleagues Blitzer, Cavoulacos, Lessard, and Paddock explained how to do this and should be more widely read by resource rich governments.) Beyond that, there is the problem of free speech and its economic impact, which few seem to recognize. Whether it’s Franklin D. Roosevelt’s negative comments on big business or Barack Obama’s “you didn’t build that” remark, business perceptions of risk—while often not rational—affect their thinking about the future and thus, investment. It’s rather as coal miners adore President Trump—more for his comments, than his actions. Although intangible, political risk has a very real effect on project economics, since it raises the discount rate, which determines the net present value of a project (see below). The figure below shows the discounted cash flow for a hypothetical oil field project at different discount rates just to give a sense of how much lower the discounted cash flow is when political risk increases the discount (or interest) rate. This matters because when a company bids on a project, they estimate the net present value of that project to determine how high they should bid. The greater the political risk, the higher the discount rate, and thus the lower the net present value. In effect, there is a direct connection between how much companies will bid for a lease and their perception of the political risk. In Mexico’s presidential campaign, the leading candidate and his aides have ratcheted up the resource nationalist rhetoric, as when energy adviser Rocio Nahle said, “We cannot irresponsibly deliver our oil reserves to the transnational companies. This July 1, this town will end the looting of Mexico.” The mistaken notion that the reserves are “delivered” to transnational companies who are engaged in the “looting” of Mexico is an old leftist theme which ignores the reality. Governments retain sovereign rights to their resources, but are simply selling a product (oil) to willing buyers. The nationalistic comments by Lopez Obrador’s campaign could be the result of a number of things, including the simple fact that he perceives such a stance to be politically helpful, regardless of what he actually intends to do. It may also be that he and his people do not understand resource economics well enough to realize the harm they are inflicting on Mexico. But additionally, they may actually plan to reverse the energy reforms, restrict or evict private operators, and rely entirely on the national oil company, Pemex, for all future operations. The first of these is least threatening, while the last appears to following the Hugo Chavez playbook, which is hardly likely to be beneficial. At the moment, Mexico’s energy sector seems on the path of Venezuela’s in the 1990s, poised to deliver growth, additional tax revenue and GDP. Under Lopez Obrador, the danger is that the petroleum industry, at the least, will be politicized, suffer from underinvestment, and enter a downward spiral, to the country’s detriment. Hopefully, politicians will devote a little time to comparative political economy an history before making firm commitments to policy. [NPV or net present value is the sum of the discounted profits from a project. Forecasted cash flow minus expenditures (including taxes) are ‘discounted’ according to an interest rate, say 12% per year. This means that next year’s revenue is reduced by 12% per year to derive the net present value for this year. Compounding over twenty years or more can reduce the distant revenue stream to a very low present value, and the higher the discount or interest rate, the greater the impact.] 