Having threatened to curb the Iran nuclear deal since he was a presidential candidate, on Tuesday (8 May) U.S. President Donald Trump fulfilled his campaign pledge with the stroke of a pen and withdrew Washington from the multinational settlement with Tehran meant to curb its alleged pursuit of nuclear weapons. In all fairness, it shouldn't be a surprise. Trump was never a fan of the 2016 lifting of U.N. sanctions brokered by the Obama administration in concert with U.K., France, Germany, China and Russia, and has repeatedly claimed it was a bad deal for months on end. Regardless of the politics and merits or demerits of the 2016 deal, what it unmistakably did was bring back incremental volumes of Iranian crude on to the global supply pool, with the promise of more as Tehran – freed from the shackles of international sanctions – set about seeking the $200-$250 billion it needed to upgrade its oil and gas infrastructure to produce and export more. Oil and gas companies from France to Japan, and all in between, started queuing up to explore investment options, and old Asian clients started buying more crude (see above). Inevitably, Iranian production remained in sharp focus, even as OPEC, an oil producers' cartel Tehran is the third-largest member of, instituted production cuts of 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd) in partnership with 10 non-OPEC producers, via a deal brokered by Russia and Saudi Arabia. With OPEC's cut discipline still intact, the latest S&P Global Platts survey suggests Iran pumped 3.83 million bpd in April; an uptick of 10,000 bpd, with exports sharply higher, as Tehran probably sensed Trump would end the deal this month. Much of the uptick was aided by an improvement in post-sanction Iran's access to the world's financial system in general, and that of European Union banks in particular. This is now guaranteed to suffer, as EU banks in particular would have to respect Trump's reimposition of curbs in order to protect their corresponding operating businesses in the U.S. The domino effect on European oil majors' investment – for instance France's Total, which had been lobbying the President not to cancel the deal – is inevitable, as they would have to hold back or cancel investment, even if European heads of state do not follow Trump's lead. But one party's loss, could be another's gain, according Thomson Reuters Oil Research, with Russian companies, already the subject of the Trump administration's ire, expected to up their game in Iran. "In the short term, there is a strong chance that more Russian oil companies, such as Lukoil, will invest in upstream and downstream projects in Iran during 2018," the research outfit opined. That said, it added that the volume of exported crude oil from Iran will "likely remain" muted during 2018, as there has not been the "infrastructure investment needed to support output gains." It seems many were waiting on Trump's decision.Furthermore, the President's cancellation of the deal could have a bearing on the OPEC and non-OPEC output cut agreement as well. Many producers in the output cuts drive have been declaring "mission accomplished" of late in light of relatively higher oil prices, with Brent and WTI front-month futures currently lurking at their highest level since the fourth quarter of 2014. So producers, both OPEC and non-OPEC ones, might sense an opportunity, with of course the caveat attached that not all crudes are created equal. Iran's great geopolitical rival, Saudi Arabia, whose production discipline has largely underpinned OPEC's recent success in cutting output might step into the breach by opting to relax its cuts if Japan and major EU importers start reducing Iranian imports (see below). And U.S. producers already in their element are plugging on regardless. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) data, the country's exports are at a record high of 2.33 million bpd per week. The EIA has also raised its forecast on headline U.S. crude oil output, predicting it will rise by 1.14 million bpd to 11.86 million bpd on average next year. Only last month, the EIA predicted a 750,000 bpd year-over-year increase to 11.44 million bpd. By all accounts, a capping of the 12 million bpd mark is expected by the end of 2019, well above that of Russia and Saudi Arabia. How this all pans out depends on how the world responds to the 180-day compliance period outlined by the U.S. Treasury following Trump's decision to withdraw from the Iran deal. It could get incredibly messy depending what the EU decides to do once the rhetoric has subsided, and OPEC, which is scheduled to meet next month, formally conveys its market stance. This invariably brings us to the response of the crude market. Throughout Thursday, both Brent and WTI saw extreme volatility falling by over 3% in U.S. trading at one point, only to recover and subsequently fall again. In the hours and minutes that followed, the declines became more nuanced. At 20:26 BST (15:26 EST), Brent was down 0.71% to $75.63 per barrel, while WTI was 1.57% lower at $69.62 per barrel, with both benchmarks only shedding some of their overnight froth despite threatening a steeper intraday slump. So far, I am minded not to change my $65-75 per barrel average price range for Brent crude, even if lower Iranian exports might add to the terminal decline in Venezuelan production, alongside problems in Libya and Nigeria. It's because I now see incremental exports of U.S. light crude that's already heading into the breach in Asia. By my reckoning Saudi Arabia and Russia would also respond by upping production. Of course, Trump's decision means it won't be a case of as you were for the oil market. According to Moody's Analytics, the President's move could knock 400,000 bpd of Iranian crude off the global supply pool. That's well below the Iranian oil sanctions during the Obama era which took out 1 million bpd. "What made the multi-lateral sanctions enforced during the Obama era so effective was precisely the fact that they were multi-lateral, whereas the President Trump's sanctions are not," Moody's Analytics adds. At the same time, for a market on the verge of once-in-a-generation type profound supply and demand changes, the development is another complication of sorts where non-OPEC production has been at its highest in decades. Overall, long-expected curbs by the White House on Iran, already factored in by some, won't be quite the change many would have you believe.