Last week Bloomberg reported that Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulators are considering a major change to the fuel efficiency standards required of new cars. According to the report, the EPA would like to freeze those standards at the level they are set to hit in 2020. According to the regulations at present, introduced during the Obama administration, car manufacturers would have to average 39 miles per gallon for their fleets in 2020 and then 50 miles per gallon by 2025. It would be easy to paint this as a reversal of Obama administration environmentalism or as a Trump administration assist to big business, but in reality it is just an adjustment to new circumstances. The government has a history of reacting hastily to the situation at hand when it comes to energy . In the early 1970s, when inflation was a major issue, the Nixon administration decided to place price controls on oil and other items (even wages). In his memoir, Vice President Dick Cheney, who was then a staffer working at the Cost of Living Council, told how the price controls were set by low-level bureaucrats, sometimes with no experience at all in the subject. Cheney wrote, “at one point, when we were up against a deadline to set prices for the coming week on oil, we discovered that there was no one available with expertise in that area. Then someone mentioned that Chachi Owens was from Texas and that Texas had a lot of oil, so we called Chachi and asked him to stop by.” These price controls were quickly outdated, and just two years later the folly of the endeavor was shown when prices were overwhelmed by external forces in the 1973 oil crisis. But in 1971 the Nixon administration was just reacting to the immediate circumstances with no serious consideration of how conditions might change or expectation that they would. During the George W. Bush administration, the price of oil was high and rising. The energy markets were gripped by the notion of peak oil, a theory that oil production would soon outstrip new discoveries. Policymakers were talking about the imminent undersupply of oil, consumers were becoming frustrated with high gasoline prices and pundits were obsessing over our reliance on foreign oil. The Bush administration implemented an ethanol mandate along with other policies designed to cut the use of oil and prepare for a shift away from oil. At the end of the Bush administration, the price of oil peaked, but it remained high for almost all of the Obama administration. The Obama team was also extremely concerned about climate change and had many allies in the environmental movement. As a result, it continued and expanded the policies of the Bush administration, including creating the new, ambitious fuel mandates the U.S. is currently grappling with. Then everything in the oil market changed. During the Obama presidency it became clear that the United States could access billions of barrels of oil domestically from shale rock formations. In 2014, the price of oil began to drop precipitously. By the end of the Obama presidency, it became accepted that peak oil was an irrational fear, and Americans soon started buying gas guzzling SUVs and trucks again as the price of gasoline dropped. Now the EPA, under the Trump administration, is facing a new energy scenario . The price of oil is inching higher after more than three years of low prices, but it is still far below the prices often seen during the previous two presidencies. U.S. oil production is rivaling that of other great producers like Saudi Arabia and Russia. Also, it is unclear if technology will be ready for car manufacturers to meet the fuel efficiency standards set years ago by bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. In the last five years, several car manufacturers have admitted to or been caught fabricating fuel efficiency results in order to “comply” with the fuel efficiency standards set by the government. These include Subaru, Mitsubishi, Hyundai and Kia. The Trump administration, in reconsidering old regulations mandating today’s fuel efficiency standards, is not doing anything different than the Obama and Bush administrations—and even the Nixon administration. The Trump administration is reacting to the present circumstances because it is clear that no one—not even a government regulator—can predict the future of the energy industry.