Handicapping the big race in a way that investors can understand The first Saturday in May is upon us. And that can only mean one thing: my oldest child is graduating from college…and it’s also the Kentucky Derby! Thoroughbred racing’s Triple Crown is an annual chase which brings together horses and their connections from across the U.S. and globally, and this year’s race is packed with contenders. Similarly, the global financial markets have come a long way to get to where they are. And as packed as the Derby field is, with about 20 of the best 3-year old horses on the planet expected to race at Churchill Downs this Saturday, I can think of about 20 different possible paths for the stock, bond and commodity and currency markets going forward. The “Run for the Roses” will be over in about 2 minutes. The markets’ race to determine what looming threats and opportunities will impact your wealth will play out over the rest of this year, into next year, and well beyond. As for handicapping the financial markets, that part I can handle. But to evaluate the big race, I once again turn to expert handicapper Caton Bredar. Caton has been in the racing business her entire adult life, and she is an award-winning journalist with nearly 30 years’ experience in print, radio and television. Last year, Caton helped me write a Forbes.com blog post comparing the art of picking winners in the horse racing business to the process investors go through in sizing up a potential investment. Evaluating the trade-off between reward and risk is at the core of both. This year, I asked her to help me look at the Kentucky Derby itself. Here are some of her thoughts on this year’s race (with odds to win as of 4/26/18 included), intertwined with my thoughts (in italics below the comments on each horse) on potential financial market scenarios with similar odds happening. (note that the interview was about 10 days before the race, so it may not account for late changes in the Derby field). The horses are numbered below, but these are not necessarily the post position numbers they will wear on Saturday, May 5th. THE FAVORITES Higher U.S. interest rates- this is the odds-on favorite for the rest of this year, particularly for shorter-term bonds. The Fed is hiking rates because they have to, in order to turn the long economic recovery into a sustainable one. I think they are backed into a corner, and that will not bode well for bond investors, as I have written frequently over the past year. The by-product of this is a deterioration of the global credit system, which means that corporate and high-yield bonds will be especially vulnerable. S&P 500 ’s valuation finally becomes a big problem – Yale Professor Robert Schiller’s CAPE Ratio, a historically reliable indicator of market valuation, is higher than at any time in its history, except for the Dot-Com Bubble. As I have noted in Forbes.com many times, this valuation issue is hanging over the stock market, and will until the hammer finally comes down in the form of much lower S&P 500 prices. The priority for you is not guessing when that will occur, but adjusting your investment approach in anticipation of it occurring at some point. Caton notes that Pletcher has “been a master of the system” that determines Kentucky Derby-eligible horses. Back in 2012, the industry created a point system assigned to each of the prep races, and the 20 horses in the race qualify based on that. This is similar to what NASCAR and golf do in some cases. As Caton reminds us, the post-time favorite has won the Derby each of the last 5 years. You would expect the top point-getters to be vying for “favorite” status come Saturday afternoon. But as she says, “the depth of quality this year is the best in a long time, and so the streak could well be broken.” Tech stocks take down the market – while the broad stock market indexes are very richly priced these days, the tech sector is perhaps the richest sector within that phenomenon. Technology stocks are now about 25% of the S&P 500 Index. The other 10 sectors of that index account for only 75% of the weight. That has historically been a red alert for investors. Mendelssohn (11-2) – Caton explains that this horse “trained in Ireland and last raced in Dubai in the UAE Derby but there have been others similar in that regard—none has won.” On the other hand, she notes that “his win in Dubai WAS in a longer race (1-1/4 Miles), and he is the only horse in this year’s field who can make that claim.” Retiring Baby Boomers - a forgotten potential risk to the U.S. economy is the flood of retirees from this gigantic demographic group. Since the boom started in 1946, the oldest in that demographic group are now 72 years old. The youngest turn 54 this year. In racing terms, the risk that this will drain savings out of the economy and exacerbate the next market decline is “just heading into the first turn.” In other words, there’s a lot left to run with this issue. Energy prices surge – and that isn’t good for consumers. Among the hundreds of stock charts I review each weeks, the consistently most optimistic are those in the energy sector. Oil prices are sort of drifting up this year, and geopolitical threats are vying with increased U.S. production to make this the usual tug-of-war that it is. We have already seen short-term price breakouts in energy stocks and, accounting for the typical risk of temporary pullbacks, I see an increased chance that oil prices and related stocks can go much higher from here. That will offset whatever positive impact was gained from those 2018 tax cuts…in a hurry. THE NEXT TIER A true global trade war – incredibly, this is real possibility. For the past several decades, the probability that the U.S. and/or other leading economics would choose protectionism over globalism was a longshot. Now, I think the odds have moved in favor of a real, live trade war. No one wins in a trade war…except investors that have the ability to invest long and short the markets…which is why I am especially glad to be one of those these days. U.S. entitlement programs weigh on the economy - speaking of wine, there has been a lot of whining on both sides of the Congressional aisle and in the public about the fate of programs like Social Security, Medicare/Medicaid, Food Stamps, etc. Now, Congress doesn’t have to do anything. But the longer they ignore this elephant in the room, and its impact on the long-term financial solvency of the country, the worse off we all are. I am not offering any political solutions here, but simply pointing out that not addressing the economic impact of massive spending on entitlements, and the budget deficit in general, is going to move to the top of the list of investor worries at some point. The future of retail - the retail economy as we know it is changing. Amazon is pushing big box stores, strip malls and other shopping outlets to shape up or end up in the retail graveyard with Gimbels, Toys R Us, Crazy Eddie and many more. I suspect this will be a typical survival of the fittest, and it makes for some very interesting stock-picking with a bear market in stocks likely approaching. Translation: as the broader stock market ultimately heads lower, selected retail survivors could end up being excellent long-term reward/risk tradeoffs. Inflation – OK, so any increase in prices of good and services is technically inflation. And consumer prices are edging higher after many years of stagnation. That’s good up to point, but I am talking about faster inflation than expected. This is what made the 1970s such a horror and depending on how the trade and debt issues are tackled politically, severe inflation could be on the table by as early as 2019 or 2020. Let’s hope not, because like many investment scenarios of the past, this generation of investors is largely unfamiliar with how bad it can get, and how quickly that can happen, once the market gets convinced a risk is now a reality. LONGSHOTS Bitcoin and its peers break investor enthusiasm - it is hard to count out the possibility that the financial markets’ version of bell bottom jeans will cause true damage to people outside of the growing echo chamber that follow it closely and are building businesses around it. It is not a longshot that Cryptocurrency will eventually be viewed as a mania. It is a longshot that the eventual end of the speculative frenzy surrounding it will materially impact the stock and bond markets. Deflation - finally, there is the other “flation.” This is when prices fall instead of rise. This has been the case with some consumer tech such as computers for years. If it happens across the economy, it squeezes corporate profit margins and puts people out of work (not that inflation can’t do that too). Deflation was a big concern of investors the past couple of years, but I suspect that has died down with the Fed now poised to raise rates some more. Other financial market scenarios which are hopefully longshots, but deserve mention at this stage, include turmoil resulting from activities in the Middle East, the Korean Peninsula or Mexico (where the NAFTA deal with the U.S. and Canada is well into overtime. Caton Bredar is a true subject matter expert in her field, the type that all of us strive to be in our chosen pursuits. It is always a pleasure to spend time “talking shop” with someone of her caliber. This article reminds me that in horse racing, as in many other sports, the analogies between sports and investment management are nearly endless. I thank Caton for her contributions to this article, and I look forward to watching this year’s Kentucky Derby!