Onshore wells in old fields are for pikers. Tim Duncan prefers $200 million long-shot bets in the gulf. After two days of Harvey's tropical torment, the streets of Tim Duncan's suburban enclave in Kingwood, Texas, north of Houston, were impassable. The power was out and night falling when word came that another 6 feet of Hurricane Harvey floodwaters were on the way. Wading through waist-high water, Duncan hoisted his wife, Christy, his 6-year-old son and two dogs into a FEMA rescue boat. Duncan, the 45-year-old chief executive of Talos Energy, was beside himself. For four months he had been orchestrating the $2.5 billion merger of his privately held company with Stone Energy, publicly traded and bankrupt. Acquiring a troubled outfit almost as big as his own was a risky play, but it would make Talos a public entity without the expense of a public offering. "I've got to get this deal done," Duncan told himself. "The flood can't be an excuse." Duncan called in a favor for a private plane to take him and his family to Alabama. Returning to Texas, he camped out at his parents' home, which was in Houston but high and dry. For weeks, after dinner, Duncan would commandeer the kitchen table and work late into the night. "I negotiated this deal from my mom's dining room," he says.    In May, upon the completion of the merger, Talos will take over Stone's listing (new ticker: TALO), and Duncan will preside over an oil company with annual revenue of $900 million. Almost all of Talos' assets will be in the Gulf of Mexico. Its low-risk balance sheet ($700 million in debt against $2.3 billion in assets) scarcely offsets the giant operating risk in that water, where a drilling platform costs hundreds of millions of dollars and the possibility of a catastrophic spill is ever present. This is a contrarian bet. The crowds are elsewhere, in well-trodden fields like the Permian Basin, where new technology (hydraulic fracturing) can be applied to old reservoirs. Talos is more like a classic wildcatter, taking a chance on wells not just in U.S. waters but also in politically chancy Mexico. The new company can produce 48,000 barrels per day now. It aims to do a lot more than that. Duncan is a refreshing burst of high-energy enthusiasm. Though he grew up in Egypt, Texas and Florida (son of an oil-company man), he talks more like a New Yorker. When the hurricane hit he was amid "critical" negotiations with bondholders Franklin Templeton Investments and Mackay Shields about restructuring over $800 million of combined debt. Money managers Riverstone and Apollo Management, principal owners of Talos' equity, were also at the table. The task would have been a challenge even if Harvey hadn't wrecked Houston. Says Jerry Schretter, a managing director at Citi who has advised Duncan for years: "For Tim, crises are an opportunity." Indeed, this is a guy who has displayed a knack for making the most of tough situations. Talos' biggest asset is the Phoenix field (formerly known as the Typhoon field), 165 miles south of New Orleans. It was first developed by Chevron, which drilled a half-dozen wells and installed a production platform, tethered to the seafloor 4,000 feet down. Then came Hurricane Rita in 2005, which capsized the roughly 13,000-ton Typhoon platform and sent it drifting 60 miles across the gulf. Who'd want to clean up after that? Talos would. It now pumps 16,000 barrels a day from Phoenix into a unique ship called Helix Producer, another asset that stirs up unpleasant memories for environmentalists. In 2010 Helix helped capture some of the 4 million barrels that gushed from BP's Macondo well after the Deepwater Horizon disaster. Output at Phoenix will grow. Talos reexamined seismic data, enabling it to make new discoveries 3,000 feet deeper than the old reservoirs. The most promising asset Talos will inherit from Stone is the Pompano platform, acquired from BP for $200 million along with several prospects ripe for new drilling. The plethora of existing infrastructure in the gulf makes it possible for Talos to "tie back" new discoveries into existing platforms dozens of miles away. Duncan calls it the "developed deepwater model." If all this makes bondholders uneasy, they can take some comfort in Duncan's hedging. He has effectively sold 80% of 2018 output via futures trades at $55 per barrel. "We know the price we need to keep the bit turning and lock it in," he says. Duncan got his start in the oil industry in 1996 working for Zilkha Energy. Selim Zilkha had foreseen the revolution in offshore seismic imaging that would enable geologists to peer into oil-laden rock layers 6 miles underground, and he was snapping up shallow-water leases in the Gulf of Mexico ahead of the first big 3-D seismic surveys. In 1997 the 50-person company sold for $1.2 billion. "As a young engineer I was amazed by the success," Duncan remembers. In 2000, Duncan helped launch Gryphon Exploration, which acquired an old field in shallow water called High Island 52. Gryphon drilled new wells and boosted output from 1 million cubic feet of natural gas a day to 50 million and then sold out to Woodside Petroleum. In 2006 Duncan cofounded Phoenix Exploration, backed by $350 million in equity from Riverstone, Pine Brook Road and Soros Fund. He and his partners made some discoveries in the Belle Isle Field near Louisiana's Atchafalaya Bay, then sold the company to Apache Corp. in 2011. By then the offshore industry was reeling from the Obama administration's drilling moratorium, imposed in the wake of BP's catastrophe. Seeking bargains, Duncan in 2012 founded Talos with $600 million in equity funding from Riverstone and Apollo. Talos paid $620 million in 2013 to acquire the Phoenix field and other assets. A year later the oil market crashed, sending offshore producers like Energy XXI and Fieldwood Energy lurching toward bankruptcy. A few years ago Cobalt International Energy was a deepwater explorer with a $10 billion market cap; now it's in liquidation, with assets selling for pennies on the peak dollar, in part because there are so few operators left to bid on them. "A lot of what we've done is hang around hoops waiting for rebounds," says Duncan. The gulf remains, after the Permian Basin, the biggest oil province in the nation, pumping 1.6 million barrels per day. And because most of the resources are in federal waters, oil royalties contribute about $3 billion to the U.S. Treasury annually. The Trump administration has already opened more federal waters to leasing. Still, drilling here will continue to be high risk and expensive. A well reaching 5 miles down costs $200 million to drill and, according to Bernstein Research, has a one-in-three probability of turning out dry. Duncan's record is somewhat better; over the past three years Talos and partners have hit seven dusters in 28 attempts. For the same $200 million you could drill and frack 40 sure-thing wells in the Permian shale, but they'll peter out after a few years, whereas a good deepwater field can produce for a decade. "We resisted the temptation to join the land race onshore," Duncan says. "I try explaining to young investors, and they have a hard time getting it." Matt McCarroll, who runs privately held Gulf of Mexico rival Fieldwood Energy, dismisses the Permian as a "manufacturing" assignment: "You can run the business on a spreadsheet." Both Fieldwood, which is coming out of its own debt restructuring, and Talos have promising futures in the Mexican part of the gulf. Last year Talos joined with U.K.-listed Premier Oil and Riverstone-backed Sierra Oil & Gas to acquire newly auctioned acreage in Mexican water. Drilling the first Mexican offshore well in 80 years not drilled by Pemex, the state monopoly, they hit a 1,000-foot-thick layer of oil-soaked sandstone containing perhaps 2 billion barrels. The future Zama megafield should be flowing oil within five years. "Grabbing that opportunity was 100% Tim Duncan," says John Bookout, who assesses energy plays at Apollo Management. Duncan demurs: "It was a mature basin, and we reprocessed the seismic [data] before we drilled Zama." It was fun watching the Astros win the World Series with his dad, but Duncan is ready to get back to normal. His house in Kingwood, which was submerged for three days in muddy floodwaters up to the top of the first floor, is gutted to the studs. Handling what Harvey dished out has "hardened" him and changed his perspective on what he really needs in life, he says: "We all want nice stuff, but what I enjoy is the challenge of building something that other folks may come to the conclusion you can't build anymore." 