By Nabi Abdullaev At his May 7th swearing-in for a fourth term as president of Russia, Vladimir Putin called for economic and technological breakthroughs to propel Russia into fifth place among the world’s economies, up from its current ranking of twelfth. Immediately after his inauguration, however, his personnel decisions showed that Putin – Russia’s second longest-ruling leader after Joseph Stalin –opted for continuity over reform. Putin nominated Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev – the loyal lieutenant who served as a placeholder president in 2008-12 after Putin’s first two presidential terms – as head of the cabinet; Medvedev named Putin’s top officials as his deputies. The only notable change was the replacement of Dmitry Rogozin, deputy prime minister in charge of defense and space industries – much criticized for incompetence – with deputy defense minister Yuri Borisov.    Putin is genuinely popular among the majority of Russians; he won re-election in March by a wide margin. That said, opinion polls show that most Russians do not expect an improvement in their lives any time soon and have no faith in the government. Moreover, Putin’s latest term begins amid several key controversies that will define international and domestic policies in the next six years. Putin’s popular success is based on the perception that Russia’s interventions in Ukraine in 2014 and in Syria in 2015 returned Russia to global superpower status. In reality, the oil crisis of 2014 and increasing Western sanctions triggered by the annexation of Crimea have brought Russia’s economic growth to a virtual halt. Personal income levels have stagnated or fallen in real terms for more than 40 consecutive months. Oil prices have nearly doubled from their nadir in December 2014, but the oil-dependent Russian economy is expected to grow in 2018 at only about 1.5% – less than half of average global growth. In his inauguration speech, Putin reiterated the importance of technological modernization, a key campaign topic for the president. In reality, this commendable and much-needed initiative runs counter to government initiatives – witness the epically clumsy attempts to block the Telegram messenger app for political reasons. This heavy-handed anti-tech campaign disrupted operations for a host of major local and international companies in Russia, including Google and Amazon. Telegram’s owner, Russian IT entrepreneur Pavel Durov, has publicly refused to share its encryption keys with Russia’s Federal Security Service, which wants to monitor Telegram’s chats for potential terrorist activity. Russia’s government communication watchdog, Roskomnadzor, has been trying to ban Telegram for nearly a month. In doing so, it has blocked tens of millions of IP-addresses, most of them owned by global IT giants. Moreover, modernizing Russia’s economy, which is traditionally dependent on the export of raw materials, will be impossible without close cooperation with the West. But Putin has escalated his anti-Western rhetoric to fresh heights in recent months, making any sort of cooperation exceedingly different. Many economic experts, including Putin’s long-serving former finance minister and ally Alexey Kudrin, warn that technological modernization in Russia is not possible without reforming state institutions and improving the business climate. These two moves, the argument goes, would unleash a wave of private initiative and entrepreneurial spirit. In his inauguration speech, Putin criticized the state’s ‘crass conservatism’ as a brake on Russia’s human capital development. The speech came less than two days after Russian police violently detained more than 1,600 people, including many teenagers, who participated in peaceful anti-Putin rallies across the country. Over the past year, Putin has made it clear that reform of state institutions is not on the cards. Launching such reforms would be acknowledging that serious mistakes were made during the preceding 18 years of Russian statecraft. Moreover, any such reforms might reveal cracks within the Russian elite, damage Putin believes he can ill afford. The Russian elite is already under pressure from targeted international sanctions against oligarchs and top decision-making officials. Finally, many domestic and international observers are asking who will succeed Putin if he decides to step down at the end of this term (at least formally, as dictated by the Russian constitution) and what kind of power arrangement to expect in the aftermath. This is despite the fact that presidential terms were already extended to six years from four in 2008, seemingly to allow Putin to extend his rule. The domestic economy will not come close to the lows of the 1990s: Russian hard currency reserves are large, and the country still has the among world’s richest supplies of raw materials. However, with Putin’s trademark approach of solving economic challenges by throwing money at them through state banks and state-owned corporations, the state’s role in the economy will only grow. This will undermine both efficiency and competition. Despite these worrying general trends, modernization will remain on Putin’s agenda. The president understands that Russia’s ability to defend its interests depends on developing a modern economy. He will try to modernize at least some segments of it autocratically, in the style of the 17th century tsar Peter the Great. In the 21st century, success may not be guaranteed; previous attempts have been thwarted by fraud and corruption. But the demand for modernization will persist, presenting opportunities for careful and well-informed international investors. Nabi Abdullaev is an Associate Director at Control Risks, the global specialist risk consultancy. 