The Russia press made a note of it. But it hardly got covered in the U.S., largely because Ukraine never was part of the American sphere of influence. Ukraine remains an afterthought except for a (boisterous) minority in Washington foreign policy circles who use it as a wedge between Moscow and Washington. And so on April 26, when the Trump Administration removed Ukraine from favored nation trade status, no one went all that ballistic about the decision. Over the weekend, the Ukrainian government made a note of the decision by Washington and hinted that they will try to persuade Trump's trade policy team to change their mind. It was the U.S. Trade Representative Office that suspended the operation of the Generalized System of Preferences for 155 Ukrainian imports, including electrical appliances and food products two weeks ago. Despite the change, Ukraine is still part of the Generalized System of Preferences , so they are allowed to sell here duty-free for around 3,500 items. Nevertheless, Ukraine was unhappy with the decision and the Ministry of Economic Development said Saturday that they are talking with Washington about a possible "solution to the problem." Ukraine's government believes that some of the tariffs are due to intellectual property concerns by Washington. Their parliament is addressing that issue. Ukraine has been the main source of Washington's ire against Vladimir Putin. Although that has now shifted to Putin's railroading another shot at regime change in Syria, and alleged meddling in the 2016 election, Ukraine has definitely suited U.S. foreign policy interests. Siding with Ukraine has been a great way to get Washington to sanction Nord Stream II, known as the anti-Ukraine pipeline to Ukraine supporters. Washington gets to give Ukraine some attention by threatening fines against the Russia-to-German gas line, while pressuring powerful European companies like Royal Dutch Shell with hefty fines if they buy gas from Gazprom through those pipes, instead of -- perhaps -- LNG from Poland or, better yet, the U.S. Getting 155 items cut from the generalized preference on tariffs and trade is a small price to pay for a guillotine hanging over the heads of Shell, Wintershall, OMV and Basf for their work on Nord Stream II with the Russians. It is unclear how long those items will be tariffed. It could very well be averted this week seeing how Ukraine's Economic Ministry is now on Washington's case about it. Ukraine has been through turmoil for much of the past 20 years. The fall of the Soviet Union did not go as well in Ukraine as it has in Russia, with some arguing that it is because Ukraine is more democratic. Its leaders are allowed to be toppled. Russia has had the same, leading governing party now -- United Russia -- since it merged with two other parties in 2001. And Putin has been president or Prime Minister since 1999. Without that steady hand, one could argue that Russia would have gone through the same series of revolution as Ukraine. Ukraine's government is stuck in perennial crisis. President Petro Poroshenko is less popular than Donald Trump is here in the U.S. He is up for re-election in March 2019. Poroshenko, also known as the Chocolate King for the wealth he has built up from this Roshen brand of chocolates, has been a more calming force for Ukraine than Arseniy Yatsenyuk, the defacto leader of the new government following the ouster of Viktor Yanukovych by extra-legal means in February 2014. Poroshenko has tried to bring Ukraine closer to the European Union, something his predecessor also tried to do but was cut short by Russia. Yanukovych rejected a customs union with the E.U. in exchange for better natural gas terms with the Russian state. Protest erupted and Ukraine was once again home to mass protest, the most recent one referred to as the Euromaidan. Russia saw Yatsesnyuk as the leader of a new vassal state controlled by Washington and quickly moved to protect its interests in Ukraine. With the help of the autonomous regional government of Crimea, consisting of a Russian ethnic majority, Crimeans voted to secede from Ukraine in March 2014 and Russia immediately annexed it. Shortly after, Russia began its backdoor support of separatists, also led by ethnic Russians, in industrial hubs like the Donbass. Ukraine's economy has suffered since. Nevertheless, Ukraine's currency, the hryvnia, has remained stable for the last 12 months despite some weakness at the start of the year. Its local bonds are still junk and yield over 16.5% in the local currency. The country's GDP is forecast to grow by 3.2% this year, according to the most recent government forecast. Ukraine remains a thorn in Russia's side. Its gas firm Naftogaz is fighting Gazprom in international courts over gas delivery contracts. Naftogaz absolutely despises Nord Stream II. The bitter divorce between Russia and Ukraine has everything to do with Naftogaz and Gazprom. The U.S. keeps siding with Ukraine while Europe is largely wish-washy about picking sides due to its proximity and trade relationship with Russia. Germany is a key player in Nord Stream II, with Wintershall and Basf both part of the consortium that wants to build it, regardless of Washington's opinions. France has also been ignoring the Anglo-American push to isolate Russia, only throwing them anti-Putin rhetoric now and again. Over the weekend, French president Emmanuel Macron sounded more like 2016 Donald Trump when he said it is better to work with Russia than to box them in behind an iron curtain. Macron is scheduled to meet with Putin this month. Both are in favor of cooler heads prevailing in the Iran nuclear deal which is under serious review this month. French oil giant Total SA has tens of millions of dollars at stake in Iran. Macron's ambassador to Russia, Sylvie Bermann, said in an interview with the Kommersant business daily that France's siding with the Brits and Americans to bomb Syria last month was not a slight against Russia. "This is not the start of World War III," she says. "One must be extremely careful with war rhetoric." 