Oil prices are on the cusp of $80 a barrel, and all market signals point to further increases. Get ready for $100 oil, perhaps as early as this summer. Brent, the international oil- benchmark, reached a record $147 a barrel in 2008 before the financial crisis reversed its meteoric rise. Challenging that level – when “peak oil” fears were at their apex – might be a stretch but at this rate, no one should be surprised to see $120 oil and $4 a gallon gasoline prices by August. It would be foolish to bet against it. Almost as foolish as betting just a few months ago that such a price spike could happen. At the time, the prevailing belief was that OPEC’s agreement to restrict its production had put a $50 a barrel floor under prices, while a responsive and rapidly growing U.S. shale oil sector was effectively putting a ceiling of around $70 a barrel on prices. So much for theories. A tightening physical oil market combined with a slew of geopolitical risks – mainly renewed U.S. sanctions on Iran, Venezuela’s epic economic meltdown and heightened tensions in the Middle East – have created a perfect storm for oil-market bulls. And when momentum shifts in commodity markets, the result can be extremely volatile, as Wall Street and other financial players pile in with a herd mentality, exaggerating price movements and trends. Reversing this bullish market psychology won’t be easy, mainly because at the moment it’s hard to make any case for the bears. Start with OPEC. Despite the recent run-up in oil prices, it does not appear that the Saudi-led cartel will prematurely end its deal to cut output by 1.8 million barrels a day with non-OPEC producing countries, led by Russia, before the end of the year. That’s because Saudi Arabia is fixated on its sweeping economic reform program at home, the centerpiece of which is the IPO of state oil-giant Aramco. Riyadh wants higher prices to support the IPO – expected to be the largest in corporate history – and to serve notice to the world that the kingdom is open for business. The IPO was supposed to happen this year, but that timetable has slipped, probably because oil prices have not been high enough to generate the $2 trillion valuation that powerful Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman seeks for Aramco. To be fair, even if OPEC and Russia decided to halt the supply cut today, it would not result in 1.8 million barrels-a-day of production returning to the market. No, the main reason behind the “success” of the OPEC deal, for the high compliance rates achieved, are involuntary output cuts in member country. By some accounts, Venezuela’s meltdown has resulted in the loss of some 500,000 barrels a day over the last six months, with output now down to 1.4 million barrels a day, compared with 2.2 million barrels a day in 2016. Already in default, creditors are circling Venezuela like sharks, and the country’s total collapse appears imminent – an event that could bring its oil sector completely to its knees. Battling their own civil strife and economic mismanagement, OPEC members Nigeria and Libya look like they could follow the same path as Venezuela. Algeria and Angola have their own troubles and have not been able to pump enough to meet their lower production targets. Indeed, following the prolonged oil price slump after the collapse of 2014, only Saudi Arabia has any meaningful spare production capacity – a robust 2.5 million barrels a day that could be brought online in a snap. Renewed U.S. sanctions on Iran – which the Trump administration promises to implement at the “highest level” as soon as November 4 – are expected to remove at least 500,000 barrels a day from Iran’s exports by the end of the year, and possibly more if Washington follows through on its tough talk. Meanwhile, rockets continue to fire into Saudi Arabia from Yemen, while conflict rages on the Gaza border following the formal relocation of the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. Syria remains a mess, while Tehran and Riyadh continue to fight proxy wars in the region. All this geopolitical drama unfolds as years of oil industry underinvestment begins to make itself known. Energy consultant Wood MacKenzie estimates that the oil price slump has resulted in the industry slashing global upstream capital spending from 2015 to 2020 by just over a $1 trillion. Such a massive investment gap will always have a supply toll. Industry capital spending typically follows prices, but that has yet to happen this time on a global scale. Major international oil companies like Exxon Mobil, Chevron, Royal Dutch Shell, Total and BP continue to adhere to tight capital discipline, keeping budgets at levels more typical of a low-price environment – and vowing to maintain this policy for years to come, no matter how high prices rise. Big Oil remains in the penalty box with the investors who believe it squandered loads of capital during the last boom. Shareholders are now demanding bigger dividends and buybacks, not production growth. And what about American shale? The short-cycle sector was supposed to prevent price spikes, as producers could respond quickly to higher prices by increasing drilling and well-completion activity, leading to higher production in a matter of months. Make no mistake; shale is performing well. The U.S. Energy Information Administration forecasts that America will increase crude oil production by an average of 1.3 million barrels a day this year to 10.7 million barrels a day. Output in 2019 is slated to grow by a further 1.2 million barrels a day, finishing next year at more than 12 million barrels a day. Expansion like that is enough to nearly cover annual growth in global oil demand of around 1.5 million barrels a day, but it’s not sufficient to also cover major losses from Venezuela and Iran – output that other OPEC members and Russia are deliberately holding back – as well as lost production from natural declines at oil fields, estimated as high as 4% in a 100 million-barrels-a-day market. Shale producers are pulling their weight, even as Wall Street demands higher financial returns from the sector. The problem, more than capital constraints, is a labor shortage and a lack of pipeline takeaway capacity. The International Energy Agency projects takeaway capacity in the Permian and Eagle Ford shale plays is likely to become insufficient to handle production levels in the coming months. Pipeline capacity could fall short by as much as 290,000 barrels a day in the first half of 2019. Higher prices should help relieve some of these bottlenecks as investor confidence rises across the sector. But the Trump administration should realize that the market for America’s incremental barrels is global, and that building up the nation’s pipeline capacity and export infrastructure along the Gulf of Mexico is paramount to continued U.S. production growth. Domestic refiners simply can’t absorb additional light oil from U.S. shale plays, but other nations will increasingly need it, and those countries present a tantalizing economic opportunity for American companies. For America to truly achieve energy dominance, it will require seizing a stronger position in foreign markets for our oil and natural gas. The president’s foreign policy so far has spooked oil markets, contributing to the current price hike. The trick for President Trump is maintaining a strong foreign policy without sacrificing markets that the U.S. energy industry will need in the future. Europe and Asia are unhappy about sanctions potentially disrupting their oil trade with Iran. President Trump should consider granting waivers for countries that have sufficiently reduced purchases from Tehran, such that some trade can continue and the potential for price shocks avoided. This requires a delicate touch, but it’s critical for U.S. oil companies that America remains in good standing with major importers like China, India and other rapidly growing Asian economies. Doing away with proposed tariffs on Chinese steel and aluminum – measures that threaten to interfere with the badly needed build-out of U.S. energy infrastructure – would be another way to show good faith. Midterm elections are less than six months away. An oil shock now that causes pain for U.S. drivers is in no one’s interest. Simply blaming OPEC for being a cartel or considering modest releases from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve won’t be enough to quiet market jitters. While past U.S. presidents have gone hat in hand to plead with Saudi Arabia to increase supplies and bring down prices, President Trump’s hand is strengthened by America’s robust shale-oil boom. America now rivals Saudi Arabia as an energy powerhouse. There is no reason why Trump can’t pursue his tough stance on Iran while working with Riyadh to manage oil markets and placate Iran’s top energy customers in Europe and Asia – customers who U.S. producers hope to one day be theirs. 