In the aftermath of the Great Recession, the worldwide central banks (U.S. Federal Reserve, ECB, etc.) have embarked on an unprecedented economic stimulus. Measures have included years of zero interest rates and massive purchases of government, mortgage and corporate bonds on a heretofore unseen scale. The goals of the bankers were to stimulate economic growth, employment, wages and importantly, bring back inflation. For years, prices barely moved as economies were flooded with cheap money. Central bankers were very concerned about deflation. This dynamic would have been unthinkable in the pre-Recession era. Hence the term “the new normal” was coined by renowned economist Mohammed El-Arian to describe the post crisis era. Recent data indicates that inflation is finally making a comeback. The Federal Reserve’s preferred indicator (PCE) is at their long stated goal of 2.0%. Oil prices are firming up above $70 per barrel after dropping to $40 in recent years. Construction costs are spiking due to labor shortages and price increases for lumber and other raw materials. But this isn’t “classic inflation,” it’s different than the pre-crisis inflation. It’s more fragmented, less secular and seemingly not as robust (2% as opposed to 5-9%). As commodities rise, prices for products are not increasing accordingly. Reasons for this include the dramatic rise in information technology as consumers have unprecedented access to competitive prices via smart phones and computers. Does anyone remember reviewing ads in the printed newspaper and calling different stores for prices? Companies like Amazon are cutting margins to the bone for the sake of volume and market share. Wall Street and the investment community is rewarding this strategy. For many years, investors viewed commercial real estate as an inflation hedge. As prices and wages rose, so did rents and therefore values. Many commercial leases have “bumps” tied to the commercial price index. Now that inflation is back, are we going back to the “old normal”? Or will it be different this time? Commercial real estate values are typically based upon net income and a market capitalization rate. Rents, expenses (and therefore net income) should rise with inflation, normally. Net incomes may not increase in near lock step with inflation. Expenses may increase more rapidly than income. For example, many retail tenants are being squeezed by competition with online sellers. They may not be able to afford increasing rental rates, especially considering supply/demand dynamics as store closures continue. Apartment rents are rising but are ultimately tied to wage growth: uneven inflation (higher commodity prices with slower wage growth) may constrain rental increases. However, expenses may increase more rapidly than rents. The return of inflation is causing the Fed to increase short term interest rates, indirectly affecting long term rates as Treasury yields are spiking. Increases in the cost of capital usually result in higher capitalization rates and therefore may counteract any increases in income. The “new normal” and its aftermath (the “new new normal” or a return to the “old normal”) is definitely uncharted territory. The old rules may not apply. “New inflation” seems fragmented thus far. Inflation protection will depend on individual property and market specifics. Regardless, there are many other attractive features to owning commercial real estate: including tax benefits (depreciation, pass through income, etc.), having a tangible asset within an investor’s control (as opposed to stocks and other securities), highly liquid capital markets for financing, etc. Going forward, it will be interesting to see how this plays out in the marketplace for investors. 