Thousands of downtrodden Venezuelans trudged to the polling booths on Sunday to participate in elections whose outcomes had most probably been rigged in advance by the brutish socialist regime of President Nicolas Maduro. As Reuters reports, thousands more citizens of this once-prosperous country ignored the elections, choosing instead to flee the nation that has been racked by hyper-inflation that has made it impossible for most citizens to afford the most basic of necessities and services. As that sad scene was taking place thousands of miles to the south, millions of Americans were recalculating the budgets for their summer vacations in the face of gasoline prices that have spiked to their highest levels since 2014. These two seemingly unrelated scenes are actually intimately intertwined with one another. Let's explore why. While a great deal of media attention has been focused recently on possible losses of Iranian production in the coming months due to President Trump's decision to end U.S. participation in the Obama-era Iran deal, comparatively little attention has been paid to the decimation of Venezuelan crude production that has taken place under the thuggish Maduro regime. The loss of production from Venezuela - which possesses more oil reserves than any nation on earth, including Saudi Arabia - already exceeds any potential loss from Iran that could take place over the next year. Venezuela currently produces around 1.5 million barrels of oil per day (bopd), a little more than half of its production level in mid-2014. The loss of Venezuelan production from 2014 through July 2016 had little noticeable impact on crude oil prices, since the world was experiencing a severe supply glut during that period of time. But that all began to change in August 2016, when OPEC members began negotiating their export limitation deal with Russia, Mexico and a few other non-OPEC nations. When that deal was finalized, August 2016 production levels were used as the reference point for each nation's production quota going forward. Venezuelan production that month was between 2.1. and 2.2 million bopd. Since that time, Maduro's collapsing economy has caused the loss of approximately 700,000 bopd, while most other parties to the export limitation agreement have maintained their quotas. So thanks to Venezuela's economic collapse, the market has become re-balanced much quicker than it otherwise would have, and oil prices have risen rapidly during 2018 as traders have priced that new reality into the equation. Sadly for Venezuelans, Maduro shows no signs of moderating the command-and-control policies that have destroyed a once-thriving economy. Thus, most analysts currently anticipate the country will lose up to another 500,000 bopd by the end of this year , a projection that has also most likely been factored into the price for crude. As I discussed in a Forbes piece last month, a variety of seasonal factors - most notably the EPA requirement that refiners switch from winter blends of gasoline to more numerous and costly summer blends - combine this time every year to cause gasoline prices to rise in the United States. But this year's spike has been more severe due to the escalating cost of crude oil, the feedstock from which gasoline and diesel are refined. In these situations, Americans feeling the pain of filling up their tanks at the gas pumps always look for some boogeyman at whom to point the finger of blame. More than anyone else, Nicolas Maduro fills the role of that gas price boogeyman for 2018. 