The price of oil is up to levels not seen since 2014, with the U.S. benchmark WTI just above $70 (as of midday May 15). Although consumers can expect to pay more for gasoline, the hope is that these higher oil prices will help profits in the U.S. shale oil industry. A report from the other end of the world offers insights and builds an argument that there could be a strong future for shale oil companies that are managed well. Al Rajhi Capital is a Riyadh-based financial services firm with an obvious need to keep abreast of the global oil industry. In the past, Al Rajhi has provided some insightful data about the state of the US shale oil industry. In a recent oil market report, Al Rajhi Capital demonstrated some positive data for shale but also some information that should be a serious warning for the American energy sector. By the fourth quarter of 2017, the top US shale producers had brought their operating cost per barrel of oil produced down to only $29.9 (by weighted average). This is down from $32.6 a year before. That means their operating costs are about $40 per barrel less than the benchmark price. This is good, but it does not mean that shale enterprises can make a profit on oil sold at $30 per barrel. In fact, these shale oil companies are generally deep in debt and taking on more debt. Now that global oil prices are higher, shale oil companies (like all other oil firms) are pressured to invest in new exploration and production (E&P). This investment is called capital expenditure, or capex. Such investment requires the kind of cash that shale firms generally lack. As a result, they need more debt. Al Rajhi estimates that, “the cash required per barrel for US Shale companies used in our analysis to meet its core capex needs, operating costs, taxes and interest was USD 51/barrel.” $51 is about $20 lower than the benchmark currently. (Shale producers cannot expect to get exactly the price of the benchmark – many sell their oil at a discount – but the benchmark is a gauge for where prices are and which direction they have been going). This is the good news. The bad news is that the debt is significant. According to Al Rajhi Capital, U.S. shale firms saw return on assets (ROA) of, “a measly 0.1%, largely on account of higher leverage.” Before oil prices fell in the second half of 2014, shale firms had much higher ROA. Shale oil firms need to get out of this debt cycle, but they also need to reinvest since global oil demand is rising and they neglected E&P for almost four years. But it is hard to get out of the debt cycle when they need to leverage more. Al Rajhi Capital explains the coming debt situation for shale. “Given the higher decline rate from shale wells and their relatively short life as compared to conventional wells, the shale producers need to accelerate capex spending to maintain production rates. Accordingly, the rise in capital spending puts the producers deeper in debt, reflecting in rising total debt for these companies amid rising interest rates.” Assuming oil prices stay up, the shale firms that prosper will be those that balance debt and E&P best. Al Rajhi Capital notes that while capital spending was in the third quarter of 2017, it was pretty much flat in the fourth quarter, so perhaps there is a conservative sentiment bubbling up in the shale industry. The author has no relationship with Al Rajhi Capital.