Saudi Arabia these days is a country in upheaval. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is on a mission to fast-forward the conservative kingdom into a modern economy, and he's pushing technology as a key enabler and driver of the transformation. His ambitious blueprint for reform, called Vision 2030, includes a greater focus on technology, with a network of data centers to provide the main framework for the plan. And while it opens up its economy and moves away from being a nation that is almost entirely dependent on oil, Prince Mohammed is aiming to establish a thriving tech ecosystem in the country, an information technology (IT) Mecca. To this end, he has put together a slew of deals to boost the country’s high-tech ambitions, including partnerships with tech behemoth Google to build a large technology hub in the kingdom, and to establish national cybersecurity services with Raytheon. He's courting the Silicon Valley players strongly, too. In April, during his extensive U.S. tour, Prince Mohammed met with Amazon’s founder and CEO Jeff Bezos, Microsoft’s CEO Satya Nadella and Google co-founder Sergey Brin. He visited Harvard and MIT, and discussed space travel with Richard Branson. Meanwhile, Snapchat is in talks to open offices in the kingdom, and so is Apple and Amazon. Technology a job creator In March, SoftBank announced a $200 billion initiative to build the world's largest solar power generation project in Saudi, as it is expected that the growth of the solar industry will create 100,000 jobs and increase Saudi gross domestic product by $12 billion. “The focus on technology has come at the perfect time for the development of the region,” says Hasan Haider, partner at 500 Startups, a Silicon Valley venture capital firm investing in startups in the Middle East and North Africa region. “With the decline in oil prices, governments and traditional industries are no longer able to fulfil the role of employer for the increasing number of fresh young graduates.” “There’s no better path for Saudi's future than the one where it engages actively with technology and startups as a country from the top down.” Startups are proliferating in the country, fuelled by increased local investment. Riyadh has been easing regulatory impediments, including limits on foreign ownership that had long kept investors away, while seeking technology transfer through its $45 billion investment in SoftBank Vision Fund, which is pouring money into startups and tech firms all over the world. It even announced plans to create a futuristic $500 billion high-tech mega-city, called Neom, with more robots than humans, and granted Saudi citizenship to an android named Sophia last year. The country aims to be an innovation center in the Middle East, says Khalid Alkhudair, founder of Glowork, a startup that’s been at the forefront to boost women participation in Saudi workforce, and that brings a sense of hope to young Saudis, who are digitally savvy, and represent the majority of the population. “Since the majority of our population—over 70%—are under the age of 35, the digital transformation in the country will create a host of new jobs. It will be crucial to transform an oil-reliant economy to a full-fledged knowledge economy,” adds Alkhudair. Shortage of skilled talent Surely, Prince Mohammed's aggressive push for investments in technology can create jobs, evolve an entrepreneurial spirit, turn potential high calibre job seekers into job producers, and thereby develop the nation’s digital infrastructure. But getting there, creating a Silicon Valley of the Middle East, is no easy task, and will take time, experts say. Lack of IT support and experience is a major hurdle. “Given certain weaknesses in the education system, and lack of big IT companies in the country, which could have helped to build the necessary expertise over time, finding skilled workers will be a challenge,” says Hattan Saaty, founder of management consultancy Strategic Gears and a former advisor to the Saudi Ministry of Labor. According to a recent report by the Institute of International Finance, Saudis, who occupy only 19% of jobs in the private sector in their country, need fundamental changes in education and skill development. “The kingdom will need to significantly enhance its IT capabilities, although core expertise is available and growing,” says Joseph Kéchichian, a senior fellow at King Faisal Center for Research and Islamic Studies, Riyadh. “Most Saudi universities are emphasizing high-tech curricula even if more must be done to reach international levels.” Also, a recent study, titled Future of Work Project, revealed that a shortage of skilled talent will continue to impede growth, including a potential unrealized annual revenue of more than $206 billion in Saudi Arabia. The government is aware of skills shortages, says Saaty, and key initiatives have been implemented across education, smart cities and cyber security. “It’s also tackling the problem head-on by attracting investors such as Amazon and Apple, and announcing incentives for local entrepreneurs.” To him, investments from IT giants like Apple to establish flagship retail outlets, and Amazon to sell data storage and computing services would further the prince’s reform plans in a country that boasts some of the highest internet and smartphone use in the world. “Many government entities such as the Telecommunication, Labor and Education departments, and the National Digitization Unit have been mandated with projects to stress the role of technology in transforming the kingdom,” adds Saaty. “All these efforts will reap significant results in the near future.” Undoubtedly, Saudi Arabia has the ability to pay for its transformation, especially as it is looks to invest the proceeds of its oil company Aramco sales in new businesses and industries, including technology sector, and that has made Prince Mohammed’s formula seem unassailable. But the vulnerabilities of the small size of the economy, with mid-sized businesses, fragility of the market, lack of infrastructure and a private sector that is not dynamic or diverse, might not interest a mass of IT investors and lure more businesses. Saaty disagrees, saying Saudi Arabia’s fast growing economy will help in creating a tech-powered ecosystem. “Saudi’s economy might be much smaller than the U.S., but it is still one of the top 33 economies in the world.” “Its stock market is the biggest in the Middle East and is a member of the G20 countries, representing–collectively—around 85% of the gross world product,” he adds. “The crown prince has identified vital areas of the economy that rely on IT and is determined to invest in those sectors.” While the 32-year-old prince is moving fast in his effort to reinvent the country, nobody knows if his vision will succeed since rigid social conservatism remains a challenge--social media users are regularly jailed and flogged for their posts. “Every society that has embarked on a rapid transformation will encounter opposition from conservative elements, and Saudi Arabia is no exception,” says Kéchichian. “Those at ease in their power bases will resent that new leaders can overtake them, or are actually moving so fast that many are left behind, abandoned to their stale methods.” Still, over the next few years, Kéchichian is hopeful that the kingdom’s socio-political fabric will dramatically alter and will play a role in the technology world. “Many experts have concluded that economic transformation, through technology, will fail to show good results, because of deep social divisions.” “Time will tell whether such experts are correct, although chances are excellent that Saudi Arabia will adapt rather well to the many coming changes, given that its young people crave for genuine reforms,” he adds. 