The price of oil rose nearly $10/barrel over the past two weeks as markets anticipated that President Trump would embrace the hawkish approach towards Iran and the JCPOA, the agreement designed to curtail Iranian nuclear weapons programs. The next six months could see significant price volatility as traders try to read the tea leaves of U.S. Administration behavior, Saudi pronouncements, and Iranian oil marketing efforts. Although Iran lost nearly 1 mb/d of sales under earlier sanctions, those had been imposed by a broad group of countries and this time the U.S. appears certain to go it alone. For those with long memories, this has happened before. In 1951, when the Iranian government nationalized the holdings of BP, that company went to court to prevent purchases of “its” oil which the Iranians tried to sell on world markets. This was quite effective, since most consumption was in the West which honored the contract BP had (its 99 year concession) and there was ample spare capacity to offset the lost supply. (In fact, it was the closure of the giant Abadan refinery in Iran, which served the Asian market, that had the biggest impact, since no one maintained surplus refining capacity.) This suggested to many that future nationalization of oil holdings would be difficult, but the Iraqi government found a work around in 1972, when it nationalized its foreign operators’ holdings. (Oddly, given petroleum policy in most countries in the next couple of decades, a primary complaint was that the foreign operators were restraining Iraqi production, thus denying it revenue it thought it deserved.) By selling its oil to the Soviet Union, which swapped or resold the crude, the Iraqis made themselves immune to legal action in Western nations. The Soviet Union, as a sovereign nation, was not subject to such lawsuits. Could this approach be pursued again? In theory, yes. Of course, countries like China and India would not feel compelled to obey U.S. sanctions, and they already import about half of Iran’s crude. (See figure.) Other buyers are likely to seek waivers, but at any rate, it is quite possible that some combination of non-OECD countries and smaller buyers will manage to absorb much of the crude sales that are blocked by nervous buyers in countries like Italy, Japan and Korea, swapping it for similar Saudi crudes. Ultimately, Iran is likely to lose some sales due to the disarrangement of its business, and perhaps will be forced to discount prices slightly ($1-2/barrel) to attract customers. One potential side effect could occur if some countries (Kuwait, U.A.E., and/or Saudi Arabia) try to support President Trump’s stance by offsetting any apparent reduction in Iranian sales. Lack of transparency in Iranian trade would complicate this and could mean that those nations find themselves actually increasing the aggregate market supply. The problem would be worsened if Iran initially lost sales but put production into storage and then released it later on the market, upsetting the plans of the other producers. As always, elevated prices could be the solution to elevated prices, as a mix of conservation and higher production could weaken the market later this year. Already, rising rig counts in the Permian are making previously optimistic forecasts of shale oil production likely to be met and overshot; as the figure shows, oil-directed drilling rigs in areas other than the Permian have risen in the past few weeks by about 25, a trend which, if it continues, could provide a small but noticeable bump to oil supply. Without a doubt, the current geopolitics of the oil market are bullish and likely to support prices at current elevated levels and possibly higher, but a combination of economic weakness and higher shale oil production could change that, especially if the Saudis and their allies raise production to offset expected Iranian sales losses. Expect the tanker trackers to be working overtime for the next few months. 