It's May 2013 and Ben Bernanke announces the Fed's plans to roll back its bond and derivatives buying program known simply as QE. The Fed is going to taper. The market sells off. The worst hit is anything east of Warsaw and south of the Rio Grande. Investors referred to it as the “taper tantrum.” Is another one in the works? Everyone knows that the Fed is in rate-hiking mode. Many emerging markets are in rate-cutting mode, so that is not a big problem for countries like Brazil and Russia. Europe is still embarking on its QE adventure. Rates are staying flat. But as the U.S. hikes, guess what is happening to the broad emerging market portfolio? Money is flowing out. Spring may be in the air throughout the northern hemisphere, but the first full week of May saw a chill descend on the investment case for many emerging markets, EPFR Global said after market hours Thursday. A stronger dollar and rising interest rates here are mainly hurting demand for corporate and sovereign bonds there. Not to mention elections in Brazil, a financial crisis requiring IMF intervention in Argentina, and uncertainty over trade with Mexico and China adding to the headwinds. Add all of that to the fact that the Fed, like in 2013, is announcing it will be less accommodative. Face it, markets like (or are addicted to) easy money. As a result of a stronger dollar, rising oil prices, trade uncertainty and elections in key emerging markets, money is flowing out. Redemptions from EPFR Global-tracked emerging market equity funds hit their highest level since mid-August 2017. Emerging market bond funds did no better. They posted their second-biggest weekly outflow this year and have extended their longest run of outflows since 2016. "In debt markets, globalization complicates domestic monetary and fiscal policy, making it harder for individual countries to control their interest rates, exchange rates and credit availability," says Arvind Rajan, head of global and macro investing at PGIM Fixed Income, a $709 billion fixed-income asset management firm. In other words, the European Central Bank plays a role. The Bank of Japan plays a role. And for sure, the Fed plays a role, primarily in risk appetite for emerging market bonds. No matter how good things are going in emerging economies, the advanced economies can always pull the rug out from under them because a bulk of the money in their markets comes from the U.S., Europe and Japan. For emerging markets, trade wars can certainly be bad for entire economic sectors or individual companies. But the Fed can certainly be bad for an entire market. On Tuesday, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said the global impact on Fed policy was an overstatement. He noted that emerging markets have been rising since 2015 even as U.S. interest rates were gradually increasing. That same year, former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, Stanley Fischer, acknowledged that the Taper Tantrum of 2013 produced spillover effects to other markets, with "significantly stronger" impacts on emerging markets. Fischer's comments are like a reverse counterargument to Powell. Powell's presentation on May 8 made no mention of the now infamous Taper Tantrum of 2013. "We believe a subtle repeat of the Taper Tantrum has occurred in Treasuries," thinks Vladimir Signorelli, a supply-side investment analyst at Bretton Woods Research. The 10-year Treasury yield went from 2.82% on April 17 to 3% in one week. It is now 2.97%. The key difference of now versus then is that yields are rising in the U.S. instead of falling like in 2013. They are rising not on the further rollback of the QE plan, but on the promise of higher rates. The tug of war now is whether investors believe higher rates will slow the U.S. economy or just keep inflation in check, which is a good thing. A slower U.S. economy means less demand for Made in China, Made in Mexico, and Made in Brazil, and investors will rethink earnings growth rates for the large companies in those countries. BlackRock's chief investment strategist Richard Turnill said last week that he thinks Brazil is poised to weather downturns due to a domestic economy finally coming out of the doldrums. India, meanwhile, is getting more hawkish. They were not one of Turnill's favorites. "Our view is that a 100 basis points hike is not significant for us, but if it keeps going up then it will start to have an effect," says Rajesh Jejurikar, president of the farm equipment division at Mahindra & Mahindra. Inflation in India is around 5%. "We are not yet seeing that as a factor, at least not in the next 12 months," he says. Over the last month, emerging markets are down, the U.S. stock market is up. The S&P 500 is up 3.3% in four weeks. The MSCI Emerging Markets is down 1.4%. A rebound on May 7 recovered half its losses in the four-week period. Brazil is down 3.57%; India is down 1.4%. But it's not all negative. MSCI China is up 1.16% despite constant drumbeats of trade wars. Russia is up even more, by 5.5%, thanks to oil. "Developed markets will outperform emerging markets in a rising-rate environment," Signorelli thinks, adding that outperformance is generally typical. According to EPFR Global's fund flow data, it is still a mixed bag for emerging markets south of the border. Latin America equity funds posted collective outflows for the third straight week. Most of this was due to Argentina, a market whose allocation among frontier fund managers more than doubled between 2015 and 2017 thanks to its reform story. It is now going through a liquidity crunch and needs the IMF. Brazil managed to end a six-week outflow streak as of Wednesday. Mexico is still attracting investors despite NAFTA woes and uncertainty over presidential candidate Andres Obrador.