Over the last 12 to 18 months, almost every chief executive at the helm of a major oil company has outlined an ambition to lower corporate break-even down to the $30-40 per barrel range, a sentiment that's unlikely to alter despite the recent relative strengthening of futures prices. And with 'Big Oil' targeting throughput maximization via digitally underpinned performance enhancing levers, the landscape is getting more competitive than ever for vendors helping them reach that process optimization Alamo. Among the vendors toughing it out sensing incremental opportunities in the sector's new found preference for data analytics, cloud computing, automation, Internet of Things (IoT) and artificial intelligence (AI) is Honeywell Process Solutions (HPS), the multinational company's automation and control solutions division. Vimal Kapur, President of HPS, says the message from the oil and gas industry is clear – good times or bad, they want their margins to remain on positive turf with the aid of new technologies. "That's good news for a company like us – so whether we are talking upstream, downstream or midstream, HPS is working on multiple launches and products to add to our value proposition that brings about maximum throughput for the client." Kapur says the age of "Industry 4.0" is firmly here. "Let's be clear, the oil and gas business is no longer window shopping for new technologies. Solutions providers like us have already demonstrated the value of cross-spectrum digitization and big data. "In some ways, the industry has always been about big data. What is changing for some (and needs to change for others) is monetizing the power of that data to reduce down-time, increase output and enhance health and safety." The HPS boss says the word "digitization" is branded about quite loosely these days. "That could stretch from anything in the back office records to plant control, and unless clearly defined means little. However, what we started noticing 5 years ago – actually pre-dating the 2014-15 oil price slide – was an attempt by companies to have a clear definition what they wanted to achieve via digital progress especially when it came to process and plant control." Kapur says it's now commonplace to find "Chief Digital Officers" within the corridors of energy majors rewriting, and clearly defining, their transformation objectives from cloud computing to process automation. "Naturally, we at HPS – who have pedigree in plant and process control systems – have gone into overdrive too, having evangelized about IoT, AI and Big Data, well before they caught the industry's attention." In the past, what is known in the industry as a distributed control system (DCS) – which HPS and its rivals have traditionally supplied for decades – served as the "brain" to a conventional plant centralizing control, monitoring and reporting of the facility's assets for the operator. Now HPS is aggressively putting forward its next generation DCS to the oil and gas industry, and beyond, called the "Connected Plant". "It's premised on IoT, where it's not just the brain or DCS that's available and accessible but also each "nerve ending" node or sensor, all interactive, in real time, and reactive like never before, both underpinned by data, and gathering data for future predictive responses," Kapur explains. Over the next 12 months, HPS will push the solution and its add-ons further to industrial, petrochemical and manufacturing clients. "It’s all about how we leverage that technology to customers' advantage and make a plant or asset produce the most over the output cycle." Control companies like HPS have always maintained data is money. "But what's happening now is that oil and gas industry is getting to grips with the new wave of data monetization. If you rewind the clock back, it was the control companies who were always behind the old systems managing their industrial clients' data. "Now, we've come up with solutions to apply the same data more holistically, help bring it to the cloud, so that it becomes available beyond the four walls of a plant to the wider organization and a pool of experts who can use the analytics to make that asset perform better, and even change the scope of work in many operational facets." Technology is not the issue, Kapur adds, the pace of adoption is. "The limiting factor we see in this brave new world that oil and gas companies find themselves in, is will they be willing to adopt new technology at the pace its available, and look to do things differently. "Admittedly, there are decades-old clients who resist, and we work with them as best as we can, and there are those who embrace change with open arms – that's the nature of the business. As a technologist, I both believe and maintain that technology has no limitation, its adoption always has limitation." And much of it has to do with human nature. "If you go back 10 years, remember how much resistance there was – even in developed markets – from people to switch from ordinary mobile handsets they were comfortable with to smartphones. "We were self-justifying that it was not needed, or it was too expensive, until infliction came and practically everyone needed it. It's where Big Oil is right now when it comes to automation, some are opting for state-of-the art upgrades while other are unwilling to move on from control systems that are still workable, functional and in many ways robust, but were conjured up decades ago prior to the proliferation of digital when demand for yield made by CEOs was very different from what it is today." In many ways, HPS sits at the heart of Honeywell's $40 billion business a year headline business, which includes aerospace, safety and productivity solutions, building technologies, and performance, materials and technology. The latter divisional umbrella encompasses Kapur's unit and has what its boss describes as a "front row seat" to the evolving industrials complex. And the man who joined Honeywell in 1989, and has been HPS President since 2014, appreciates the technological tectonic plates are shifting. "The fundamental shift we see for ourselves is how quickly we are transforming to a software company. Software was always key to what we provided – but our customers did not see that on the physical aspect of the control system. "But increasingly, software is ingrained in so much of what we do, that while brand Honeywell maintains its heritage of being an industrial equipment provider, the value creation is moving to software. So a difference between us and a software company is narrowing down and we are becoming a 'software industrial company.' "Software product launches are outweighing traditional launches, and are are central to our value creation and hardware, and driving our own transformation as a company. Our competition varies from sector to sector, from Emerson to Siemens, ABB to Yokogawa. We have also entered smart electricity where we compete with ITron. "Yet for all of the intense competition, the control and automation industry still retains its collaborative spirit in light of cybersecurity challenges all parties face, and the simple fact that in the industrial complex not everyone makes every piece of kit. Furthermore, most DCS offerings are based on Microsoft operating systems. "So situation often demands that us and our competitors be hardware agnostic. And cybersecurity is an issue we all seriously tackle on a daily basis. For instance, from a mere 10 cybersecurity experts HPS employed just 4 years ago, our cyber-experts headcount currently is above 200." Kapur says many in the manufacturing and production community, not just oil and gas companies, don't view anything that has to do with security as a productive investment. "So in the past, the cost of IT had to be justified. Today you look at any major company and the IT cost is 2-2.5% of headline earnings. "While cybersecurity is now a mandatory cost of doing business, it has still not become part of corporate spending DNA for many. That's why you have multiple incidents and breaches, a very small fraction of which become public. But things are changing and sensitivities are growing by day. "Emerging challenges and the need for newer technological solutions keep us motivated, as we eye opportunities to make an impact, make a difference to the wider industrials complex and come to work thinking what we can do differently to make the next day better than the previous one for us and our clients." 