Global remittances have grown to a record level of $613-billion in 2017, a 7% increase from $573-billion in 2016, according to the World Bank. Payments to low- and middle-income countries rose at a high percentage: up 8.5% to $466-billion last year, from $429-billion the year before, according to the World Bank’s Migration and Development Brief. This follows two years of decline in these payments, which are generally by expats sending money home to family. African countries Nigeria (with $22-billion) and Egypt ($20-billion) ranked fifth and sixth in the list of top recipients, behind India ($69-billion), China ($64 billion), Philippines ($33 billion), and Mexico ($31 billion). “Sub-Saharan Africa remains the most expensive place to send money to, where the average cost is 9.4%,” said Dilip Ratha, lead author of the brief. Remittances to    Sub-Saharan Africa saw a 11.4% growth in remittances to $38-billion in 2017, “supported by improving economic growth in advanced economies and higher oil prices benefiting regional economies”. These are expected to grow 7% to $41-billion this year. Nigeria (with $21.9-billion) was the largest remittance recipient, followed by Senegal ($2.2-billion), and Ghana ($2.2-billion). The report found that remittances are a significant share of gross domestic product in several countries in the region, including Liberia (27%), The Gambia (21%), and Comoros (21%). Egypt is included in the Middle East and North Africa region. “While remittances are growing, countries, institutions, and development agencies must continue to chip away at high costs of remitting so that families receive more of the money. Eliminating exclusivity contracts to improve market competition and introducing more efficient technology are high-priority issues,” said Ratha, who is also the head of the Global Knowledge Partnership on Migration and Development (KNOMAD), which is a global hub of knowledge and policy expertise on migration and development. “Major barriers to reducing remittance costs are de-risking by banks and exclusive partnerships between national post office systems and money transfer operators. These factors constrain the introduction of more efficient technologies – such as internet and smartphone apps and the use of cryptocurrency and blockchain – in remittance services.” 