The IEA has cut oil demand forecasts as the recent growth in oil prices continues. The agency expects demand to fall in response to high prices, but there are a growing number of analysts who believe that the fundamental drivers of oil demand are undergoing a massive shift. The IEA’s forecast sees a drop in 2018 global oil demand growth to 1.4 mb/d, as the oil price hits a high not seen since 2014. A key concern is international geopolitics, as for example when Total announced it is withdrawing from its Iranian projects, following US withdrawal from the Iranian nuclear deal. Another issue is that many importers of oil are cutting end-user fuel subsidies. It’s not as simple as high prices curbing demand however. The oil majors seem to be undergoing a reassessment of exactly what the future holds, and how far oil extraction and exploitation will continue to be the dominant paradigm. What's driving this is changing investor perception of the future. Mark Fulton, Senior Fellow at Ceres, Founding Partner at Energy Transition Advisors and co-author of the recent released Clean Trillion report said, 'Oil demand is likely to peak in the next few years, well ahead of many companies' expectations.' According to CERES, investors are increasingly seeking to mitigate their exposure to investments with high physical and environmental risks, such as water scarcity, emissions, other pollution or other costs related to climate change. This, in turn, favours clean energy, which tends to be far less vulnerable to climate impacts than conventional baseload power generation and associated infrastructure.    As UAE Minister of Energy Shual Al Mazroui said in January 2018, ‘We are trying to move subsidies from oil and gas to new forms of energy. There’s enough energy potential in our region to export to Europe and Africa too’. It may be that that shift is due to the export potential for oil and the falling price of renewables, but it is indicative of a major shift in global thinking. Even Patrick Pouyanné, Chief Executive of Total, said earlier this year that the oil industry has been forced into a period of refocus, identifying where the company was most likely to find growth and efficiencies. Today around 5% of Total’s portfolio is in renewables, a capital investment of $5-6 billion, and in 20 years Pouyanné said he expects Total’s portfolio to be 20% renewable. The company plans to invest $1 billion per year in new technology and as Pouyanné said, ‘It’s a question of the company evolving its strategy.’ The latest oil company understood to be limiting its output is Spain’s Repsol, as a Bloomberg report suggests that it’s no longer intending to seek growth in the oil sector. It says that the company is expected to release a new business plan that limits oil and gas output to current levels and keeps no more than eight years of reserves in stock. Recently Statoil changed its name to Equinor, to reflect its evolution into a broader energy business. According to the chair of its board Jon Erik Reinhardsen, the name change is also a reflection of the importance of the energy transition. The big issue remaining about the future of the energy mix is what the market’s response will be. In 2016 there was roughly $300 billion invested in renewables and $300 billion invested in fossil fuels, causing some to question whether or not the markets had already reached a tipping point. In 2017, according to CERES, this had shifted to where clean energy investment was more than US$ 333 billion, compared to only US$ 144 billion invested in conventional fossil fuels and nuclear. There has also been a significant shift in available mechanisms for investors to get involved in alternatives to fossil fuels. This is important because have comprehensible, proven and effective mechanisms allows investor to integrate new opportunities into their portfolios more easily. CERES expects that investors are most likely to become involved in primary market clean energy investment in the following ways: Fulton says, ‘Clean energy technologies such as wind and solar have de-risked and become a central competitive threat to fossil fuels and nuclear power, even as incentives decline.’ And that means that minor shifts in production and delivery capacity might be the least of the oil industry’s concerns. 