Not long ago, the Bakken play centered in North Dakota was the center of the U.S. shale oil boom. Activity was so hot that McDonald's employees were raking in $20 an hour to feed the burger and fry hungry oil workers. It was the great Bakken that gave North Dakota the fastest growing GDP per capita rate in the country. Started in 2014, however, the oil price collapse stung the Bakken more than most, especially since infrastructure constraints have left its crude trading at ~$10 discount to WTI. The Bakken though remains 1 of just 10 oil fields globally that yield over 1 million b/d and is the third largest U.S. shale oil field, behind Texas' Permian and Eagle Ford.  But, U.S. crude prices are up nearly 20% since the start of the year, rising past $70 a barrel . Drillers have finally been given a chance to capitalize, and the Bakken has been on rebound for a while now, with the rig count closing in on 60, versus the most recent low point of 24 in May 2016. The efficiency improvements and cost reductions continue to impress. In March, the Dallas Fed Energy Survey put the average breakeven price to profitably drill a new well in the Bakken at $50, with the $40-60 range of responses easily the tightest of the group. Take Hess, the number three player in the play, now upping Bakken spend by $900 million this year, or nearly 30%.    The Bakken will remain the most price sensitive of the three big shale oil plays but its incremental potential this year is second, maybe surpassing the 1.3 million b/d mark for total output. This would be a record for the Bakken but it's likely dependent on favorable weather and road conditions. Any slowdown in the Permian from infrastructure constraints would help put more focus on the Bakken, which has had a few years to get infrastructure in order.  In the Bakken, "increased pipeline capacity decreases the likelihood that marginal production is shipped by rail, which likely reduces the expected differential Bakken producers must pay." The contentious 1,172-mile, potentially 600,000 b/d Dakota Access Pipeline that started full operations last June was a milestone. And Keystone XL could eventually ship 100,000 b/d of Bakken crude south.  Although the future likely isn't as massive as the Permian, "we’re still in the third inning of the Bakken development,” says shale legend Harold Hamm, CEO of Oklahoma-based Continental Resources.  Switching to natural gas, the Bakken is now quietly yielding a very solid 2.3 Bcf/d of gas, a near doubling since 2014 . Not just to expand oil and gas development and get more product to market, more takeaway pipelines would help producers reach higher state capture requirements, rising from 85% now to 88% in the fourth quarter. But ultimately, the Bakken offers the best lesson in never underestimating the constant advance of energy technologies and the importance of price, especially in the capital intensive oil and gas business. "The reports on the death of the Bakken are greatly exaggerated." The U.S. Geological Survey once thought that the Bakken could only yield 150 million barrels of crude total - but, the play now produces that every four months or so. In fact, Continental, long the largest Bakken player, believes the field could have 40 billion barrels of oil primed for development. These underestimations of U.S. shale oil hold true nationally: in 2010, the U.S. Department of Energy projected that we would be producing less than 6 million b/d of crude oil in 2018, but we are now closing in on 11 million b/d. Over the next month alone, the U.S. will add a record 144,000 b/d in shale production, reported by EIA's latest Drilling Productivity Report. 