Many of the world’s biggest companies are starting to get to grips with human rights issues in their operations and supply chains, but there is still a long way to go before this becomes business as usual, a new report says. A report from the Corporate Human Rights Benchmark (CHRB), a non-profit ranking corporate performance on human rights, says that as more and more firms in the apparel, agriculture and extractives sectors engage on human rights, they are creating a “race to the top” on the issue as benchmarks highlight good performers, those that are lagging behind and the areas where improvements are most needed, helped by pressure from civil society groups and investors. There has been a growth in human rights reporting and commitment to transparency since the launch of the pilot benchmark in 2017, as a result of new legislation and civil-society led reporting frameworks such as the CHRB. Last October for example, Coca-Cola released its first stand-alone Human Rights report, partly as a reaction to the first benchmark. The Shift Project has recorded a rise in company human rights reports from 13 in 2015 to 52 in 2017, while over 5,000 companies have now reported on their public commitments to avoid modern slavery in their supply chain. “This increased disclosure is crucial for accountability and for understanding corporate performance on human rights,” the report says. Benchmarked companies, either directly engaging with CHRB, or in response to the $5 trillion investor coalition that endorsed the CHRB, have recognised their position in the rankings in the 2017 benchmark and are committed to improving their performance. Some, such as Nestle, Gap, Freeport-McMoRan, Mondelez and Tesco are quoted in the CHRB report as reviewing and positively evolving their programmes and policies to manage and report on human rights. The impression of increasing action is backed up by specialist consultancies/advisors such as Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and ERM, which have reported demand for human rights support in the wake of the CHRB pilot. More widely, investors such as Union Investment in Germany say that poor company human rights performance, informed by the CHRB and others, can result in exclusion from specific funds. But the report also highlights 28 companies that have not meaningfully engaged with the CHRB (i.e. not responding to the investor coalition, not responding to CHRB invitations, consultations or communications and not taking part in the 2018 benchmark engagements). These large companies, including Kraft Heinz, the retailer Macy’s and luxury brands Hermes and Prada, had some of the lowest scores in the benchmark, indicating a lack of transparency and public commitment to managing human rights risks and impacts. Others that were highlighted included China’s PetroChina, Sinopec and CNOOC, Coal India and Russia’s Norilsk Nickel and Gazprom. “While the CHRB is pleased with the progress to date, it is clear there is a long way to go before the UN Guiding Principles become part of business as usual,” the report says. Steve Waygood, chair of the CHRB Board and chief responsible investment officer at Aviva Investors, adds: “Five years on from Rana Plaza and one year on from the first Corporate Human Rights Benchmark, this report indicates that benchmarking is beginning to drive a race to the top on business and human rights. That is good news . “However, we should all be concerned by the lack of engagement from around a quarter of companies, particularly as they are in priority sectors concerning serious human rights impacts. Issues such as modern-day slavery, worker safety and freedom of association can be material to the financial performance of these companies and they may risk restricted access to capital due to reputational damage and regulatory backlash,” he adds. In 2018, CHRB members, working with a range of other investor coalitions, plan to push for greater corporate transparency and engagement on human rights, with revised results for the apparel, agriculture and extractives sectors to be launched in November. The CHRB is also committed to expanding the assessment into the ICT sector, with a pilot benchmark planned for 2019. The CHRB is backed by a $5 trillion investor coalition including Aviva Investors, Hermes EOS and F&C Investments of the UK, Dutch group APG Asset Management, France’s BNP Paribas Investment Partners, the Scandinavian investor Nordea and US groups Walden Asset Management, Boston Common Asset Management, as well as the UK, Dutch and Swiss governments.