In early 2018, the South American country of Venezuela became the first country in the world to declare a cryptocurrency as their primary currency. Japan acknowledges Bitcoin as a legal currency, but the Yen is still the country’s primary currency. Dubious claims aside, Venezuela’s oil-backed cryptocurrency is not a unique case when it comes to a nation embracing crypto as a national working currency. The current actual primary currency of Venezuela, the Bolivar, is under record-setting inflation, to the point where people have been paying for things with trash bags full of money, which are being valued by their weight, rather than the numbers that are on the currency. In other words, the money is being weighed out in bags. Starving, destitute citizens have turned to Bitcoin mining to make a living. At first, the government outlawed the practice, but as the grave situation worsened, they realized this might be the one thing to infuse money into their broken economy. The government decided to launch an Initial Coin Offering (ICO), pre-mining the entire 2.7 billion coins itself, and then selling a large stake of it to private investors, many of which included foreign governments themselves. China is one of the 133 countries that have been reported to have expressed their intention to invest in Petro, which had initially received almost 201,000 offers of purchase intention, for an initial amount of $5,025,181,787.54. Late this February at the start of the pre-sale, it was indicated that 84.2 billion were to be disbursed, out of the 100 million ordered by Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro, with an initial value set at $60, based on the price of a barrel of Venezuelan crude in mid-January. No evidence was produced at the time to back the President’s claims of having raised $735 million on the first day of the pre-sale, and nation’s opposition-run congress slammed the cryptocurrency’s sale as an “illegal and unconstitutional” instrument to illegally mortgage the country’s oil reserves. Still, investors seemingly still poured in for a slice of the action. The crypto offering was designed to fund public needs in the country and to be used in international deals amongst other things. But there is still debate about the legality of the offer itself, with Venezuela's Asamblea Nacional, a grouping of politicians at odds with President Maduro having early this March declared the Petro cryptocurrency as unconstitutional. In an official statement they slammed the project as not just a fraud, but also a threat to interested investors. What Is The Petro? The name “Petro” is significant. Each Petro coin is backed by Venezuela’s massive oil reserves, said to be equal to 5 billion barrels. Each coin is said to be worth the price of a barrel of oil, with the WTI currently trading at around $67 a barrel and having been at a 52-week low of $42.06/high of $72.83. The government itself is now preparing to set up 9,000 crypto mining machines. On February 20, 2018, the Venezuelan government released the first public offering for Petro coins. However, just 38.4 million coins were made available to the public to purchase. Furthermore, it was at the time not found on any currency exchanges, but only ones hosted within the country. The whitepaper for the ICO also suggested that this is an Ethereum-based ERC-20 token, however other reports say it is running on the NEM blockchain. It remains a massive struggle for citizens in Venezuela on a daily basis, and it is not clear yet whether this move into the crypto world will be enough to rescue its failed economy. Amidst cries of “scam” and “worthless” from Western-based analysts and politicians throughout the world, there is still hope that not all is lost some posit. In this bleak situation, mercy from other ends of the world (through private crypto investments and infusions into Venezuela, and into the Petro), may be the only act of grace left for this struggling Latin American nation to hope for. There are even people who are crafting handbags out of the worthless banknotes for a living, as this is a better use of the devalued currency. All of this has echoes of hyperinflation in Germany's Weimar Republic between 1918 and 1924 when the rate went from one to a staggering trillion paper marks per gold mark. And, more recently Zimbabwe, the first hyperinflation of the 21st century that witnessed a peak month of inflation in mid-November 2008 estimated at 79.6 billion percent. Despite issues surrounding it and whether it can work, the Petro has been hailed as a means of salvation to the Venezuelan economy and the citizens of the country. However, this is not an isolated case of a country embracing cryptocurrency as a national working currency. There are a number of countries, both rich and poor, excited to participate in this revolution. So, let's look at the runners and riders on this front. Tunisia Back in 2015, which already seems like an eternity ago, Tunisia used blockchain technology to create the eDinar, a digital version of their current money. One can use this coin to pay bills and make money transfers. The blockchain also is used here to manage identification documents. Senegal The government of Senegal collaborated with local banks to produce its own coin, the CFA Franc. It is tied to the fiat currency of the West African nation, one of two African regional currencies backed by the French treasury and pegged to the euro, yet also compatible with neighboring currencies. It is regarded as a great way of stabilizing purchasing power of not just a country, but an entire region. Sweden The central bank of Sweden, Riksbank, is working on the creation of the eKrona, a development, which I covered at the time on Forbes in September 2017. However, when the public was surveyed about the project, it received only 10% support from citizens. The majority of the people had heard of Bitcoin, yet only 2% had used it. Estonia Estonia in the Baltic States is extremely blockchain friendly, using that technology in several levels of government. For example, their entire healthcare system is on the blockchain. Even U.S. President Donald Trump is an e-resident of Estonia. And, the release of the so-called “Estcoin” seems to be on the horizon. But it should be noted that as a member of the European Union (EU), Estonia is legally obligated to use the Euro as its national currency, and needs to decide how to assign value to an Estcoin, if it decides to move forward. China China is exploring options to not just create a digital currency, but eliminate their paper currency altogether. This has been ongoing for several years, with no official plan yet in place. Though it may explain the ban on Bitcoin a little more clearly, as they do not want the market to decide the plan for them. That said, back in February 2017 it was reported that China was developing its own digital currency, with a People’s Bank of China (PBOC) cryptocurrency and payment platforms like Alipay and WeChat set to face competition. Russia Russia has been considering a new national cryptocurrency called the CryptoRuble. It has been rumored since 2015, but it looks like it may actually come to life around 2019. Vladimir Putin has been quoted as saying it is a project that will help circumvent western sanctions and bring additional cash flow into the country. Japan The J-Coin is scheduled to launch in 2020, valued 1:1 with the Japanese Yen. The project is spearheaded by a consortium of Japanese banks, rather than the government. Japan already recognizes Bitcoin as legal currency and many stores accept it. Israel The country, which celebrated 70 years as a nation this year, is looking into possibility of launching its own digital currency, the digital shekel. It is a project still being mulled over by both the government and The Bank of Israel. Until the authorities and others figure out how to put the technology to use, no decision will be made to move forward. But it seems inevitable, as they believe it will help prevent tax evasion if every transaction is done on a mobile phone wallet. It appears to be just a question of when, not if. Dubai EmCash is a government-backed blockchain-based currency being created by Emcredit and Object Tech, which will serve the residents of UAE. Object Tech has also been contracted to create blockchain-based digital passports for UAE citizens as well. Switzerland In Switzerland, the country is looking into state-backed “e-franc” had has commissioned reports on the risks and opportunities associated with launching such a cryptocurrency. Switzerland is one of the few European countries that does not use the Euro and all transactions are still undertaken using the Swiss franc. Kyrgyzstan A plan for a currency backed by gold reserves, called GoldenRock, is under development. The government hopes to raise somewhere in the neighborhood of $40 million from this token sale, with the funds raised will be used for investment in agriculture. Besides the country cryptocurrency projects mentioned above, there are also several other coins in existence that are tethered to just national pride, meaning more than official government issuance or recognition, such as the Maplecoin in Canada and the IrishCoin in Ireland. As always, do plenty of research and due diligence before you decide to invest in any crypto offering. For instance, do not confuse Petrodollar for Petro. And, remember too that investing in cryptocoins or tokens is highly speculative and the market is largely unregulated. Anyone considering it should be prepared to lose their entire investment. Currency is a major form of economic control and stability. So, while it may seem like an already saturated marketplace is only going to get worse, everyone will not agree to use Bitcoin as the worldwide currency any time soon. And, as countries evolve their currencies, this may lead to future dialogues about backing standards, what digital currencies represent, and might eventually create a more stable global economy. There is no telling if the distribution of digital wealth will change ratios along with it, or how this will affect poverty. These are issues world leaders must face when deciding on what to do with this emerging technology. So, stay tuned, things are just starting to get interesting. Watch this space. 