(This is an extended version of the piece that ran in Forbes Magazine) Adam De Chiara, a 27-year commodities veteran at $4 billion in assets CoreCommodity LLC, has seen a bear market, or three. He created the ubiquitous Bloomberg Commodity Index and survived $20 oil, now De Chiara says rising rates and a revving economy make once-plunging commodities impossible to ignore. “We are in the early stages of what is going to be a protracted bull market in commodities,” he says. And now's a good time to pay attention. Relative to REITs, bonds, stocks and emerging markets, De Chiara's research shows commodities are significantly undervalued compared to long-term averages. The about 30-person CoreCommodity team is a mainstay in the sector regardless of where valuations sit. The firm builds portfolios of direct commodity holdings, typically using futures and also owns equities of commodity producers. Its funds are generally owned by institutional clients seeking diversification from their stock and bond holdings. During the recent commodity malaise, CoreCommodity's mutual funds lost ground, falling 5% annually over a 5-year stretch, but they outperformed commodity indexes that plunged nearly double digits. This year has been a different story, with its ALPS CoreCommodity CompleteCommodities Strategy Fund (Ticker: JCRAX) rising nearly 8% as animal spirits rev in the sector. Its top holdings (as of the first quarter) are WTI Crude and Brent futures, which are about 10% weights each, followed by soybeans. corn and natural gas. In equities, it's exposed to domestic giants Marathon Petroleum MPC +0% The bull case for commodities? As growth drives demand for energy, agriculture and metals, it’s hitting against cut production from the recent bear market. Historically, in rising rate and growth environments -- think the 2002-2008 bull -- commodities outperform. How to play it: Bullish: OIL'S WELL De Chiara favors assets with industrial usage like oil, aluminum, copper, nickel and zinc. Take crude: Four percent GDP growth translates to an additional 2 million barrels per day of demand and once oversupplied markets recently moved to deficit. “Demand is going up against a rationalization of supply.” Long Term Winner: FUEL AND FOOD The march of technological progress is deflationary, thus efficiency has disappointed natural gas and agriculture bulls who bet on scarcity as the population grows. But an emerging middle class in developing countries and a cleaner grid make De Chiara a bull on both over the long-term. Take Pause: TARNISHED GOLD Some doubters of the S&P rebound flocked to gold, expecting hyperinflation after the crisis. They lost. As the Fed steps back, the outlook for hoarders worsens. “Historically the opportunity cost of owning gold rises as the interest rates rise.”