I am often asked which disruptive technologies will thrive in the oil and gas sector and what impact they will have on the industry. If I had been asked this question three or four years ago I would have said that it was unlikely that any would make a significant impression given the high oil price and the value being generated all through the supply chain. But how things changed, and quickly. The oil price crashed and the operators were scrambling around in almost unseemly haste to unlock the potential of disruption. The key word became digitisation and the benefits it could bring to a sector that was paying the price for decades of poor cost management, lack of standardization and a risk adverse nature that bordered on technophobia. So now four years later with the oil price again climbing to respectable levels, even if the present $80 plus per barrel is probably $20 above where it would be without the current geopolitical pressures, the industry is awash with innovation both from traditional sources and from the wider technology arenas.    So, here’s my quick guide into the impact that disruption can have on the sector. Artificial intelligence and machine learning  Artificial or what is also referred to as augmented intelligence can understand both structured and unstructured data and to make sense of it. Experts can teach it so that each time it improves. AI solutions built with purpose, transparency and trust in organisations that are investing in the skills that work with them can be of huge benefit to the oil and gas industry and help address the ageing workforce challenge. Building cognitive advisors that can consume structured and unstructured data compiled by experts that may have long since retired, can enable the new generations to accelerate their experience and help ensure safety. Vidar Gunnerud, CEO of Solution Seeker, believes that AI is the future for the oil and gas sector. “It’s going to be important, and it’s particularly important in the low-price oil price regime to drive down costs by removing people offshore to onshore and to making production more efficient,” he said. “I think this is going to be a long journey, and AI is not a simple term. AI could mean a lot of things, and the oil companies will start in small steps as they add more complex content to the algorithms.”   Cloud and edge computing  Cloud based applications enable operational agility and flexibility, allowing organisations to continuously develop and scale out new capabilities. This provides a significant platform for innovation across the value chain, with the ability to centrally access, process and share data. With the proliferation of sensors and the Internet of Things providing real-time visibility of operations, edge computing is becoming increasingly important to process data at source for automation. Connecting objects through sensors across cloud hosted platforms to make smarter decisions and allow for remote operations provides a plethora of opportunities to improve safety and increase efficiencies. In remote and harsh locations like offshore operations, anything that reduces flow through the communication channels will improve the experience of technicians. Edge allows local processing on vessels and facilities and some analytics and condition monitoring to happen without going back onshore. Cloud technologies allow a wide standardization and scalability across an estate, ensuring controls are standard and there is reduced chance of security and data breaches locally. Virtual, augmented and mixed reality  Visual and audio recognition in remote locations can not only be used to improve safety and deliver efficiencies of machinery but reduce the need for human inspections of equipment in potentially hazardous places. Innovations in this space have been accelerated by the reduced costs and sizes of mobile devices, but ensuring devices are safe is still a challenge. From augmented reality headsets such as BHGE’s Smart Rig to BP using AR glasses to bring expertise to workers in remora regions, the technology is becoming more prevalent and ever more common. Blockchain  Blockchain will do for transactions what the internet did for information. In the OG industry numerous companies transact with one another across the supply chain and collaborative solutions leveraging blockchain technology will provide transparency for all parties and reduce disputes and the effort involved in managing them. In Deloitte’s report ‘Is Blockchain’s Future in Oil and Gas Transformative or Transient?’, Mark Koeppen, principal in Deloitte Consulting CFO strategy practice argued that determining how and whether blockchain will work for a particular oil and gas company is a starting point and that important advances in technology rarely come with a full embrace at the start. “Conventional wisdom, strategies and tactics have fuelled the success of this powerful industry for so many years,” he said. “Change inevitably comes to all industries. How that change evolves and attaches will determine the direction an industry takes. Distributed ledger technology may be one breakthrough that drives the industry in a new direction, but it still has many hurdles to overcome.” You only have to look at recent oil and gas events and the increasing presence of companies such as Cisco, Microsoft, Intel, IBM Watson and Oracle to know that the oil and gas world is changing and changing rapidly. 