As the U.S. markets stayed closed on Memorial Day, the global futures and currency markets continued to trade -- and on them, the Euro hit a lower low for 2018. At 1.164 while I'm writing, it has not hit a lower price than this all year. The last time the Euro dropped to this level was November, 2017. It may be that the possibility of new elections in Italy have affected the currency -- a new government may want less involvement. As all markets are interconnected, it may have something to do with the drop in the price of oil and that European stock markets are off today as well. The strength in the U.S. dollar is the flip side of this action in the currency market On the weekly chart, you can see that the next major support level for the Euro is down there in the region of 1.05. This is where it definitely formed a substantial bottom during the last cycle, at the end of 2016 and twice during 2015. Could that be the target this time around? Here's the chart of the highs and lows tracked on a monthly basis: That's quite a range: from about .80 to 1.60, a double if you could have had the foresight to buy at the bottom and sell at the top. Meantime, look at all of that volatility over the years. The Euro peaked near the end of the financial crisis of 2008 -- back when even Warren Buffett was losing money. It's been unable to re-take that level again over the next 10 years. As a matter of fact, this monthly chart pattern to an old-school technical analyst has the look of a classic head and shoulders formation. And here's the monthly dollar chart, so you can see clearly the upside-down quality of the relationship between the currencies: It's a holiday in the U.S and in Great Britain, so things may look different when these markets open again on Tuesday morning. Many other factors may be at work as the currency markets are vast and complex, but the continuing lower lows in the price of the Euro are definitely worth examining. I look at oil price charts right here and at bitcoin charts here. I do not hold positions in these investments. No recommendations are made one way or the other. If you're an investor, you'd want to look much deeper into each of these situations. Always do your own independent research, due diligence and seek professional advice from a licensed investment adviser.