The bond market is about double the size of the stock market, with a far greater trading volume, and can have some predictive power for stocks. This is because government bonds are typically in tune with the broader economy and interest rates. Currently, the bond market is sending some negative signals about the prospects for the economy and the markets, but is this just noise or something you should pay attention to? The Term Spread Within the bond market, researchers John Cochrane and Monika Piazzesi have found that something called the "term spread" can predict economic growth, and potentially recessions. Here's how it works. When the different between yield on shorter term government bonds and longer term government bonds is low, it can signal weaker growth in future years. To pick a simple example, U.S. Treasury yield curve now has a similar shape to 2007. You can monitor this spread for yourself here. There is some debate about exactly which government bonds should be used, but most accept that the 10 yield U.S. government bond yield less the 2 year yield is a reasonable way to measure the term spread.    Of course, 2007 was just before a major recession starting in 2008. Stocks seldom perform well during recessions, so is now the time to get nervous about the U.S. economy? It seems that this is definitely something to monitor, but we'll see that an inverted yield curve seems to be the major signal, and that has not happened at this point. An International Perspective All major countries have their own debt markets, so are the other bond markets showing a similar picture to the U.S? Mostly, not, European yield curves are generally more upward sloping. However, India and China currently both have slightly flatter yield curves than the U.S, though importantly, they aren't currently negative. Also, researchers have found that the U.S. bond market tends to have the most predictive power when forecasting stock market declines. We'll discuss what a negative yield curve means, because that seems to be the biggest indicator that trouble may be on the horizon and has been a remarkably accurate forecasting tool historically. An Inverted Yield Curve Something that commonly gets attention in the markets is an inverted yield curve. This is where short-term yields exceed longer term yields and so the term spread becomes negative. If this is the case, then the bond market is potentially betting on interest rates declining, and it's often right. Interestingly, the yield curve inverted in 1998, 2000 and 2005. In each case a U.S. recession occurred within 1 to 3 years. That's an impressive forecasting record. Nonetheless, it's important to remember that firstly the U.S. yield curve is not yet negative. However, it may be heading in that direction. Secondly, 1 to 3 years may not seem like a long time when you're looking at a chart and in a sense you know how the movie ends, but if you're investing through that period 3 years can be a very long time to wait if the markets continue to move up. For example, if the market returns 7% a year, and a recession brings a 20% market decline, then actually it may be better to wait it out and take the gains leading up to the recession and the recession itself rather than pulling out of the market too early. Plus, of course, there are all the benefits of a buy and hold strategy, as potentially low costs, greater tax efficiency and not having to worry about the market each day. Too Good To Be True? There is also the challenge that in investing such good forecasting records seldom last. The inverted yield curve has had such good predictive power with recessions, that it's likely many investors will realize this, and next time the market's behavior may change. As such there's a chance the inverted yield curve in a sense becomes a victim of it's own success. Also, recessions don't come along all that frequently, so we're really just talking about three data points in recent history, and perhaps the term spread was more of a chance correlation in the past, than something with actual predictive power. Another concern is that the shape of the yield curve is just one factor, maybe the absolute level of yields matter too and, of course, even though the term spread is narrow, absolute bond yields are still low by most historical comparisons. What It All Means There are many signals that we may be closer to the end of the current economic cycle than the beginning. It's simply been a long time since the last recession. Unemployment is low, rates are rising and many industries are close to full capacity. Plus, a rising oil price hasn't been that helpful for economic growth either. As such, thinking ahead as to how you can prepare for market decline is a prudent idea. Not necessarily because one is imminent, but because the worst time to react to a decline is in the middle of it, rather than planning in advance. In this context a narrow term spread is another signal that's not positive. However, the power of the term spread appears to come when it turns negative, and that hasn't happened yet. As such it's probably a little too early to sound the alarm based on this specific piece of data, though that time may not be too far away. Based on how bonds have moved in the past, an inverted yield curve in the next few years seems possible and that won't be a good thing for markets. 