The report, conducted by Aberdeen & Grampian Chamber of Commerce in partnership with the Fraser of Allander Institute and KPMG, reveal that while firms have in recent years looked to international markets for business growth, business confidence is returning to the UKCS in terms of its potential future prosperity. Moray Barber, partner at KPMG, said that the key takeaway is that 2018 is still a difficult year for E&P contractors, but what is coming out is that there is a new sense of confidence for the next two to three years on the UK Continental Shelf (UKCS) in particular. “The importance for UK companies is that confidence is being seen in the UKCS itself against international markets,” he explained. “Over the past three or four years international markets have been the key areas for growth. Whereas now, through several developments in the UK over the past six to 12 months that is showing a lot more confidence in UK waters.” The number of key entrants that are coming in to the UJCS along with some very large projects that some of the super majors are going to develop over the next couple of years is one of the prime drivers behind the upsurge in confidence. “There is a mix of that, but there is also several ageing assets where people have been delaying spend or maintenance,” Barber added. “That can no longer go on. We are seeing companies undertaking inspection, integrity and maintenance, and contracts are coming out for those. That is keeping some of the service sector very active as well. Creating value Overall almost two thirds (64%) of contractors are more confident about doing business than they were a year ago with only 8% indicated being less confident. This net balance of plus 56% is greater than the plus 39% recorded in the previous survey and the highest net balance recorded since spring 2013. Going forward, seven in ten contractors (71%) expect the upward momentum to continue. Another important development is the influence of independent operators, who are engaging quite differently with the supply chain. “Some operators look to the tier one contractors and stop there and leave the tier one manufacturers to deal with the supply chain whereas the independent companies who are private equity backed are looking at different ways to create value,” Barber continued. “They are doing that by engaging with contractors further down the supply chain and with organisations such as OGTC driving new technologies and in my opinion those technological advances are driving a bit more open-mindedness to new technology coming from the new entrants into the market.” When I talk to the operators they believe that they are engaging along the entire value chain and promoting best practices along with new approaches to increase operational efficiency, but Barber sees it differently. “I am yet to see that coming through in practice; a different story in terms of utilising new technology and new ways of working,” he said. “They say they are empowering their project managers. We are still to see that really come through in practice; it would be great if it did change, but now we are certainly seeing them relying on the tier one contractors.” Positive outlook from SMEs Contractors are also reporting a more positive outlook around production-related work in the UKCS. For the first time since 2014 firms (a net of plus 20%) have expressed a rise in the value of production activities, with 46% forecasting a further increase in the 12 months ahead. Barber reported speaking to a small company, the S of SME, and they have had a good year up to the end of March 2018, posting increased revenue and EBITA and they can see that continuing. “They have put that down to retaining their workforce and having a great deal of capacity to pull on their workforce when there is growth,” he added. “ Turning the corner Despite the changing environment oil and gas companies are still being cautious because there is still some uncertainty around timeline. “I don’t think there is any doubt that people believe that an improvement is coming, but some large projects are still being pushed out,” Barber said. “That is why there is still some caution and a bit of risk out there in the market because no one know when all these contracts are going to land. If you are struggling on working capital and liquidity and these projects get pushed out, you still need to ride the storm.” In the E&P sector they are fit for the future so the profit per barrel is very high and their earnings calls are very positive. that sentiment just needs to trickle down through the new entrants and contractors. There is further good news when it comes to investment. While 41% of contractors – the highest figure since autumn 2014 – are now working at or above optimum levels in the UKCS, more firms (30%) increased their investment in the region in the last 12 months than those who had reduced their spend (21%). This is a significant shift from the position of two years ago and the trend is expected to continue in the next two years. Operators and licensees, on balance, are also forecasting a rise, suggesting the sector’s own outlook is increasingly positive. Future outlook As for the future much hinges on the long-term oil price along with the supply and demand dynamics, which at present are being constrained by the lack of production from Venezuela allied with the threat of US sanctions against Iran. “I think that the oil price is up to $80 a barrel for geopolitical reasons and a realistic level is around the $60-$65 mark now,” Barber concluded. “The operators have done a very good job in driving costs out of their business – the cost of production varies per field, but it has come down significantly. If it was at $65 operators would still be making profit at that point.” How the converts into the supply chain is a different matter because that cost has been driven out of the supply chain and it has come out of things such as contractor’s day rates. Technology has also played its part in driving down that cost. So while optimism abounds at the moment the future is far from plain sailing. 