When Toyota sent its first hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicles out on the road in 2014, many thought the world's second-largest automaker, and the preeminent producer of hybrid cars, was merely raising the possibility of another alternative mobility fuel and triggering a wider industry debate about a new concept. But a few years down the road, the Japanese company appears intent on taking its hydrogen car – the Toyota Mirai – to the mass market. At least, that's the sense your correspondent got having been driven around in one for a whopping 800 kms from May 16 to 18, 2018 and road testing it to the fullest extent. At first sight, the car resembles the latest version of Toyota's Prius model as it uses a similar MacPherson strut chassis. But sidestepping physical similarities, the Mirai – touted as a zero-emission car – is a differently engineered set of wheels for all intents and purposes. The front-wheel drive car uses Toyota's Fuel Cell System (TFCS) – featuring both fuel cell and hybrid technology – and incorporates its proprietary fuel cell (FC) stack, FC boost converter and a 5 kilogram (kg) capacity high-pressure (70 MPa/10,000 psi) hydrogen tank. Running it only generates water as a by-product, with the FC stack generating electricity from a reaction between hydrogen and oxygen, thus powering the vehicle with zero harmful exhaust emissions. While road testing, the Mirai accelerated from 0 to 100 km/h in 10 seconds, and Toyota claims it has a top speed of around 180 km/h. Furthermore, driving it seemed quieter than a Prius, something that's hard to fathom unless you actually have the Mirai experience. And if popular fiction and historical mishaps trigger bouts of nervousness about hydrogen explosions, Toyota wants prospective buyers to perish those thoughts having rigorously tested the Mirai's tank since 2012. In fact, the company's engineers even fired bullets at the tank to check its integrity, going above and beyond standard mandated crash tests. In many ways, with multiple safeguards and "extra-thick" carbon fiber in place, Toyota says its hydrogen tank is "safer than a conventional fuel tank." The Mirai hit European and U.S. shores in 2015, exactly a year after its Japanese debut. Since then, Toyota has sold 5,500 units globally to a very different clientele either side of the Atlantic. Whereas in the U.S., the take-up of the car has largely been driven by individual buyers, the 250-odd sold in Europe have found their way to organizations and corporate buyers. For instance, European car hire companies seem to love it with CleverShuttle (Germany), Hype (France) and Green Tomato (U.K.) among those deploying the Mirai. Other clients range from the Dutch Government to Transport for London, the British capital's transportation authority. The Mirai has also found its way to users as diverse as London's Metropolitan Police Department, Technical University of Vienna and U.K.'s Science Museum to name a few. Qin Xu, Toyota Europe's Mirai Fuel Cell Specialist and Marketer, says car hire companies, industry partners, corporates and city administrators, are likely to remain lead takers for the Mirai in Europe. "It's a marked contrast to the U.S. where 95% take-up is by individual clients clustered around the state of California. However, whether it is Europe or North America, we are not rushing for volume right now; we're on a march to improve awareness of hydrogen as a fuel alternative." But a bid for wider market penetration is not that far away, she adds, as Toyota – which claims its car is the first mass-produced hydrogen fuel cell sedan – prepares for up to a "tenfold increase" in FC stack and hydrogen fuel tank production beyond 2020. While rival automakers such as BMW, Daimler, Hyundai, Honda and Volkswagen are also committed to propagating the hydrogen gospel, Toyota has set itself a target of selling at least 30,000 units by the turn of the decade, up from the current level of 3,000, according to Xu. To this effect, the company is investing in major new facilities in Japan. For instance, a new building at its Honsha plant will accommodate the expansion of FC stack mass production, while Toyota's Shimoyama factory will gain a new assembly line to manufacture high-pressure hydrogen tanks. At present, the Mirai is sold in 11 countries – Japan, U.S. and nine European markets including the U.K., Germany and France. Demonstration tests of the Mirai are also under way in Australia, Canada and the United Arab Emirates. In an attempt to lend weight to its hydrogen credentials, Toyota also aims to sell at least 100 hydrogen-powered buses ahead of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games, as an event partner. "It is our commitment to a hydrogen-based society, and we have been clear that we see hydrogen technology as complementary not supplementary to what Toyota does across the mobility spectrum from hybrid cars to petrol vehicles," Xu says. At the end of the day, the company knows the Mirai's success will ultimately bottle down to captivating driving public's hearts and minds and of course the availability of retail points for refueling. Your correspondent can testify that a tank full of hydrogen can take you up to around 500 kms before the need to top up fuel. Yet loading up, for peace of mind if nothing else, might well be required before the tank's limit. By that argument, at present, finding a hydrogen fuel retail point needs careful planning and sales points, while growing in number, are few and far between. Survey data compiled at the end of 2017 suggests Toyota's home turf – Japan – has the largest number of hydrogen fueling stations worldwide at 91, followed by the U.S. (61), Germany (37) and the U.K. (18). This is expected to change dramatically over the coming years, as Big Oil gets in on the alternative fuel retailing bandwagon. For instance, BP is busy incorporating electric vehicle charging points at its fuel forecourts, while Shell is fitting hydrogen pumps at its sales points across Europe. "The rethinking that is required to incorporate alternative fuel sales points is already underway. This includes having hydrogen refueling points at our existing facilities, as well as Greenfield investment in new dedicated hydrogen sales points," says Stijn van Els, Chairman of the Shell Germany. In step with the automakers, the fuels industry wants a tenfold increase in hydrogen retail points by 2020. "In Germany's case, that would mean 400 retail sites by 2020. This is not some competition with fossil fuels, but an alternative offering to end-customers that Shell is committed to, and is not bringing about on its own. Collaboration between automakers, governments and energy industry will be crucial," van Els adds. Infrastructure required to get hydrogen to fuel points would be similar in premise, even if different in purpose, and technology mainly to do with pressurization. "Pipeline and tankers can used for transport, and hydrogen pumps can and already are stacked on the same sites as diesel and petrol fuel points." And the Shell executive denies it is a chicken and egg situation when it comes to the proliferation of hydrogen over whether automakers or fuel retailers should take the lead. "Ultimately, everyone benefits from scalability in a wider move to a low carbon future. Of course, as a business we keep a careful eye on the automakers, while we continue to invest in infrastructure and offer fuel at competitive prices." That price usually varies from €9.50 ($11) per kg of hydrogen in Germany to €10.50 in France. In the U.K., a kg of hydrogen would cost around £10 ($13.3). So assuming a kg of hydrogen would take you 100 kms, that's broadly comparable to the running costs for a petrol vehicle. What's more, consumers can expect cost reductions brought about by the effects of scaling in the near future. van Els says hydrogen has been in industrial use for over 100 years, and things are now taking shape for mass market mobility usage. "It is difficult to predict where it will all lead with absolute certainty, just like you cannot predict where the oil price might be in 2020, let alone 2030. However, our reading of the nascent hydrogen market gives us reasons to be positive. "We see significant decrease in demand for diesel between now and 2030 driven by hybridization and alternative fuels. But what we don't see is a drastic reduction in kilometers driven as people want to have mobility. We say we're in the mobility business and that means catering to all fuel demands." Rival oil majors BP, Total and Statoil, and specialist industrial gas providers Air Liquide and Linde are among the many companies echoing van Els' sentiment, and Toyota is certainly hoping the retailers play ball. As for individual customers, impressive as driving the Mirai is, getting your hands on one - unless you happen to be based in California or Japan - is currently a bit tricky, as are the cost permutations. On paper, the Mirai costs around £65,000 in the U.K. (or $84,000 stateside). While that might appear steep to some, most units are sold on a lease agreement of around £750 per month including fuel costs. Even then, the Mirai is currently not available for mass sales; and you have register your interest online with Toyota to be considered. According to Xu, at present there's only one private Mirai owner in the U.K. and a few in Norway, including a leading environmentalist, out of the 250 Mirai's on European roads. "This will all change from 2020 when we will take the Mirai to the mass market. Until then, you'll have to watch this space," she adds. It's safe to say more than just auto enthusiasts would be keeping an eye out for that space. Toyota is hoping it can claim first movers' advantage in the hydrogen fueled mobility sphere as it did with hybrids back in the late 1990s. By that argument, chains and strands of the touted hydrogen economy might well depend on how the automaker's bet plays out. 