U.S. offshore drilling – concentrated primarily in the Gulf of Mexico (GoM) – is an often-overlooked component of America’s rise to Energy Superpower status. However, it would be a strategic mistake to dismiss or limit off-shore drilling for hydrocarbons, as some not-in-my-back-yard (NIMBY) parochial interests suggest. Yet, New Jersey local officials are leading the charge against the Trump Administration’s new offshore drilling plan, a bipartisan proposal to open up nearly 90% of the nation’s continental shelf waters to future oil and gas development. In 2008 the United States produced just under 5 million barrels per day (mmbd) of oil and 57 billion cubic feet (bcf/d) of dry natural gas. This year our country’s oil production is on pace to break 10.6 mmbd (its highest level since 1970), while natural gas is expected to average 80.5 bcf/d. By comparison, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia produced 10.4 mmbd of oil in 2017 while the Russian Federation – the world’s #2 gas supplier – managed an output of 67 bcf/d. For the 7th consecutive year, no country on earth has extracted more oil and gas than the United States. This is what energy dominance looks like. While theses impressive numbers are largely thanks to the advent of hydraulic fracturing, offshore drilling continues to provide a dependable supply of hydrocarbons for the U.S. economy. In 2017 the Gulf of Mexico production contributed 1.7 million barrels of oil per day and 3 billion cubic feet per day of gas. With some 94% of America’s continental shelf off-limits to coastal drilling, however, growth is limited. Trump’s National Oil and Gas Leasing Program (National Outer Continental Shelf Program) for 2019-2024 would change that by granting operators access to an estimated 90 billion barrels of undiscovered technically recoverable oil and 330 trillion cubic feet of undiscovered technically recoverable natural gas. This would increase U.S. technically recoverable reserves three-fold. Furthermore, the oil downturn in 2014 forced oil and gas operators across the country to cut waste and become more efficient. With oil prices now hovering above $70 a barrel – a far cry from the $35 per barrel we witnessed in 2015 – offshore producers are now back in the black. By most estimates, GoM break-even prices are just under $50 per barrel, only $10 per barrel higher than their onshore-shale counterparts. In fact, according to a Wood Mackenzie report released earlier this year, some areas of the Atlantic basin and the Gulf could yield break-evens closer to $35, below the $45 needed to be revenue neutral in the Delaware Shale basin. With offshore operators now leaner and meaner, the economic potential of the OCS is now greater than ever. According to Dr. Joseph Mason, a professor at LSU and a Senior Fellow at Penn's Wharton School, concludes that NOC development could: “Provide the U.S. government with $36 billion annually for the next 7 years, and $139 billion annually in the long-run....generate almost 2.7 million jobs.....generate $3.9 trillion in Federal tax revenues and $1.9 trillion in State and Local tax revenues.” If the economic benefits aren’t enough, Trump’s plan also comes endorsed by the Pentagon: “The Department of Defense recognizes that national security and energy security are inextricably linked and fully supports the development of our nation’s domestic energy resources in a manner that is compatible with military testing, training, and operations,” spokeswoman Laura Ochoa said following the National OCS Program announcement. If the United States hopes to limit the power of malevolent petrostates like Iran and Russia, we must use every tool in our arsenal to do so. New Jerseyans – like all Americans -- are within their right to protest the appearance of oil and gas rigs across their coastline. Concerns over safety in the wake of the Deepwater Horizon disaster, as well as impacts on coastal tourism, are not without merit. Safety should not be compromised. And it is the responsibility of elected officials to heed the wishes of their electorate. But it is also the responsibility of state and local governments to do what is best for their country –- “not in my backyard” is not sound economic policy. Surely, a compromise – perhaps involving a ban on offshore rigs within the visible horizon line – 12 miles – could be arranged. And as the world currently consumes 79% more hydrocarbons than it discovers, the National OCS Plan would not just be a boon to the U.S. economy, but the world at large. New Jersey natives should realize that beyond boardwalks and water parks, their coastline offers tremendous opportunity. Oil and gas should be a win-win game for everyone.