The rhetoric of the Trump administration is certainly pro-oil industry. This can be seen in the recent National Security Strategy and the President’s remarks at the June 29 Unleashing American Energy Event. However, there have been opinions that the Trump administration’s actions have had and will have at best a minor effect, with some authors saying the policies “will provide marginal support for increased growth of oil and gas output” and “Trump's energy plan isn't a game-changer.” To assess the effect of the administration’s policies, one must weigh the impact of numerous individual actions, for example, executive orders, legislation and changes in regulatory practices. I find it convenient to look at these as grouped into three categories: actions specifically targeting the industry, environmental regulations that affect industry demand or costs, and general actions that nonetheless have a significant effect on oil and gas. The latter include lower corporate taxes, tariffs and withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal. Actions specifically targeting the oil and gas industry These numerous actions are almost all positive for the industry. They include opening additional lands for leasing, reduction in Outer Continental Shelf royalties, expediting environmental review of the Dakota Access and Keystone XL pipelines and rollbacks of Obama era fracking and methane emissions rules.    These actions benefit and are welcomed by the oil industry, however, the majority of the new acreage is not economically attractive with current oil and gas prices, and the prospectiveness of the Gulf of Mexico shelf is limited even with lower royalty payments. Easing the rules and expediting regulatory procedures are certainly benefits. As the articles cited above point out, these effects are small compared to the effects of improvements in technology and higher oil and gas prices. In addition to their practical and monetary effect, Trump’s positive view has raised the spirit of many in the industry. Environmental regulations that affect industry demand or costs The Trump administration has made elimination of “burdensome” regulations a priority. To date, they have proposed to roll back approximately 70 environmental regulations. Two of these, the Clean Power Plan and review of automotive fuel economy (CAFE) standards, have received particular attention with regard to the oil and gas industry. As I pointed out in an earlier post, the Clean Power Plan has a negligible effect on oil and a minor effect on natural gas. Renewable energy subsidies, which have not been cut, are more important. A rollback of CAFE standards would hypothetically help the industry by increasing gasoline consumption. In practice, the effect would probably be negligible. State regulations, consumer demands for more efficient vehicles and the growth in electric vehicles will likely keep fuel efficiency on the same path. Car sharing may reduce miles driven. President Trump also touts cost savings from deregulation. This is difficult to quantify. Environmental spending by oil companies is shown in a Reuters article to be about 2% of gross revenue. Because the Trump administration’s actual and proposed changes are only a fraction of federal environmental regulations, and because regulations in states and other countries remain, the overall reduction in environmental spending will be small. There will be benefit from faster approvals. Other actions having an effect on oil and gas Some of the most significant effects on the industry are a byproduct of actions taken for other purposes. These actions include the tax bill, trade policy and withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal. The Tax Cut and Jobs Act is often described as a giveaway to the oil industry. In the aggregate, the revisions reduce taxes on the industry. After all, reducing taxes is the purpose of the bill. However, the provisions are not uniformly favorable. The effect on individual companies varies tremendously, depending upon financial structure, degree of international concentration, industry sector, existing tax situation and other factors. Some "win bigly." Some have little benefit or even see a tax increase in the near term. The graph below from a Rystad Energy analysis of a group of U.S. shale producers provides an estimated magnitude and variation. Source: Modified from Rystad Energy Rystad estimates the annual cash flow benefit to the shale drillers, which currently produce about half of U.S. oil, to be about $5 billion per year. This sounds like a lot, but it is about the same as a $3 per barrel increase in the oil price. Similarly, headlines proclaiming the tax bill to be a bonanza for big oil ignore unfavorable provisions in the bill. The overall effect is more modest. Trump’s restrictions on trade, particularly the steel tariff and NAFTA renegotiation, are expected to hurt the industry. The effects cannot be quantified since these are works in progress. The U.S. withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal is expected to raise oil prices. Goldman Sachs has been quoted as estimating the increase to be between $3.50 and $7 per barrel. This may be more important than any other measure the administration has taken. The bottom line The Trump administration’s actions are a combination of positives and negatives. Many are proposed but not implemented; some are challenged by lawsuits. The effects on individual companies differ. Assessing the net effect requires assumptions piled on assumptions. The most significant effects on the industry are likely to be unintended consequences of actions taken for other purposes. It is a fair guess that the net effect is moderately positive. This is welcomed by the industry and certainly more favorable than the actions proposed by Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton during the election campaign. However, the effect is small compared to the effect of improvements in technology, oil and gas prices and reduction in the cost of operation. The current revival of industry activity is focused almost entirely in the shale plays and results from improvements in technology combined with higher prices.  