The allure, scarcity, and high cost of diamonds has largely been controlled by De Beers. Now, the company is doing something they once said they would never do, sell man-made diamond jewelry. This comes at the risk of diluting demand for the globally controlled diamond market. However, the world's largest diamond miner believes it has the tools and expertise to drive prices sufficiently low enough in the man-made diamond industry to both differentiate them from real diamonds and make a profit at the same time. De Beers is known for largely controlling the $80 billion diamond industry, creating artificial scarcity in diamonds to drive up prices and control the sense of a diamond's allure. In recent years, De Beers has seen the market share for man-made diamonds increase, encroaching on their large share of the natural diamond jewelry industry. Their goal is to price the man-made diamonds low enough to market towards millennials interested in diamond jewelry but unwilling to pay the price of a natural diamond. As the market share continued to increase, De Beers found itself jumping into the game and giving in to past statements. Considering the scale at which De Beers manufactures diamonds, they have the ability to undercut pricing from smaller players, again controlling the man-made diamond industry as they have the natural diamond industry. It appears De Beers is attempting to do what OPEC did to the US unconventional oil and gas industry several years ago. With OPEC controlling the price of a barrel of oil, they opened the floodgates, driving the price of a barrel of oil from around $100 to around $30. The goal was to drive prices so low that it forced small unconventional operators in the United States to go out of business, eliminating an annoying competitor to OPEC's dominant control on the market. By stepping into the man-made diamond industry, De Beers can control the man-made diamond market, flooding it with diamonds and driving prices down. Perhaps the underlying goal is to both suppress and control the burgeoning market which has threatened their decade's long control of the diamond industry. How Are Lab-Created Diamonds Formed? Lab-created diamonds are exactly the same as natural diamonds in their chemical makeup and structure. In fact, man-made diamonds can be formed to be perfect specimens of diamonds, without the natural flaws, coloring, etc. of natural diamonds. Diamonds are made up of a structurally rigid lattice of carbon atoms. To produce a man-made diamond, labs use a carbon seed to act as the starting point for the diamonds. The diamond seeds are placed in a special microwave chamber. The chamber is then pumped with methane and hydrogen gasses and heated up to 900 to 1200°C. This superheated plasma ball causes the gases to slowly stick to the diamond seeds, growing the diamond atom by atom. Over the course of 3-4 weeks, the diamonds continue to grow until they are large enough to be cut and polished and used in jewelry. The differentiation of man-made versus natural diamonds is so difficult, it requires high powered machines and trained technicians to identify the difference. While man-made diamonds have been used extensively for industrial purposes including diamond bit drills and computer chips, they are becoming more popular in use for jewelry. Only time will tell how De Beers is able to further control the diamond market by jumping into the man-made diamond jewelry business. Either way, the consumer is set to win with a new influx of inexpensive, conflict-free, and environmentally friendly diamonds.