Technology has the potential to create enormous opportunity, but also presents several challenges. Digital disruption in the oil and gas space is no different. As many sectors worldwide have embarked on their own digital journeys, the energy sector has also started to explore the promise of digital enablement and Big Data.  One of the companies leading the march into digital future is Baker Hughes, a GE company (BHGE); merging the oil and gas expertise that Baker Hughes has developed over its many years in the sector with GE’s digital expertise from manufacturing, aerospace and healthcare amongst many other sectors. I recently sat down with Dean Arnison, global product leader-subsea production systems and services, at BHGE to explore what he felt digitization meant to the oil and gas sector. Arnison believes that there are two main areas for improvement that will continue to dominate. One, in driving up productivity and two, in driving down cost, with new business models, strong partnerships and integrated service models central to these efforts. “We have seen some movement towards operators and suppliers working in a more unified manner, sharing data across the value chain, and this is something we expect to continue,” he said. “When you consider the levels of trust required for this type of integration and data sharing, however, there are undoubtedly significant barriers.”    Through the downcycle we have seen companies talk about the need to make oil and gas developments profitable at break-evens of as low as $35 per barrel. Regardless of whether it’s onshore or offshore, the industry needs new technology solutions that can help lower non-productive time, reduce cost per barrel and increase recovery rates. “So long as the industry makes sure its digital efforts are aligned with stakeholder interests, I believe we will see value created,” Arnison added. “An example from within our own business is in outcome-based business models, as opposed to transactional relationships. While still in its infancy, this approach, enabled by digital tools, is something we anticipate will become increasingly mainstream.”  Digital focus Tools and processes undoubtedly differ between organizations. That said, most oil and gas companies are on a similar journey, looking at how to improve their own productivity and cut base costs, while exploring the ways digital can be leveraged to optimize the production from assets through a greater understanding of failure points and inefficiencies, and because of augmented decision-making.   “At BHGE, our priority is to achieve a step-change in performance and we apply an internal and external lens to that,” Arnison continued. “Externally, by using digital analytics to integrate products and technologies within our subsea portfolio, from intelligent completions to subsea production systems, while enabling differentiated insights in terms of production assurance and asset integrity management. Internally, by looking at the ways digital can help us improve how we work with customers during project execution, which creates efficiencies on both sides.”  BHGE are also looking at opportunities to improve internal working practices through digital-enablement, by automating processes and bringing data onto digital platforms for online access, data sharing and consumption. One example is the fast track towards the digitization of all its data books, developing ‘digital twins’ of its products carrying design, production and operational data, and introducing a number of automated test regimes in its subsea manufacturing sites.    Keeping the industry on track Oil and gas is not a technology-averse industry. It has solved some of the most difficult and technically-demanding challenges but historically, it has been slower to adapt than many sectors, largely due to the potential risks involved. “My observation is that we, as an industry, are still in something of an ‘exploratory’ phase, looking at the opportunities and solutions we want to bring to this space to add value,” Arnison added. “The focus seems to be in the right place, for example, the development of software platforms designed to drive system-wide optimization, but I think what we want to see is more effort made towards a common goal if we really want to challenge the status quo.”  Arnison explained that from the information he has access to, he can see that operators and service companies are on a similar journey, but there is also a duplication of effort that could be solved by a more collaborative effort. With the rapid pace of change that characterizes the world today, especially around digitalization, there is a need for more joint industry programs (JIPs) and other such initiatives designed to better connect the industry as a whole.   A strong vision to drive change from the highest levels of an organization down, without being distracted by the cyclical nature of the industry, will also be key. “Many of the challenges we face can be answered through software and digital expertise, but we need to keep it at the top of the agenda and make sure that, regardless of oil price, we don’t lose that focus on driving greater, sustainable productivity and hence profitability.”    