The price of oil on world markets dropped about 2% late last week on the news that Saudi Arabia and Russia may begin to increase production soon. Forbes contributor Ellen Wald describes the specifics right here. The price charts for oil tell us that, so far, the direction of trend -- upward -- is essentially intact. That may change as news of the 2 nations' intentions becomes clearer but, for now, the up trend remains unbroken on a daily, weekly and monthly chart basis. You can see that the uptrend line connecting the August/September, 2017 low with the February, 2018 low remains below Friday's closing price. And oil managed to stay above the Ichimoku cloud -- that technical indicator which shows a greenish or reddish map derived from a comparison of the highs and lows of the 9-day and the 26-day prices. The cloud is still green. The weekly chart gives us a wider, more dramatic view of the progress of oil's bull market which kicked off in February of 2016 and has remained in place, with only occasional dips, since then. The uptrend is clear as you can see by the red dotted line connecting the early 2016 low with the mid-2017 lows. Price remains well above it -- and above the cloud. Note that the relative strength indicator above the price chart is signaling a negative divergence from the previous price high to the recent higher high. The monthly chart, below, shows the astonishing range of this commodity price over the years. The cost of a barrel of oil has veered from a low of below 30 to a high of just above 145. Right now we are quite a distance from the bottom and the previous peak. This month -- May, 2018 -- oil made it to just above the Ichimoku cloud level and then sold off, back into the reddish-ness. If it ever closes above that level, then a test of the 100/120 resistance area might be in store. Here's the point-and-figure chart for a different kind of perspective on the market: According to this method of technical analysis, the uptrend from 2014 remains completely in place. As long as the price continues to stay above that blue line connecting the 2017 lows, it's bullish. A close below that level would call into question the uptrend. I have one more chart to show -- to see how the global market affects the stocks in the exploration and production of oil. It's interesting that this sector has failed to take out the late 2016 peak. It might be argued that with the positive action of the stock market in general since then and with the oil price continuing higher, you would expect exploration and production issues to have gained more. I'm certain that a more fundamentally oriented oil markets expert could explain the dynamics of this. I take a similar look at Bitcoin price charts right here. I do not hold positions in these investments. No recommendations are made one way or the other. If you're an investor, you'd want to look much deeper into each of these situations. Always do your own independent research, due diligence and seek professional advice from a licensed investment adviser. Metrics courtesy of FinViz.com 