The bitcoin price peaked in December, 2017 after an amazing, almost straight-up run for months. It finally broke the uptrend early this year, dropped significantly and has traded mostly sideways-to-down since then with lows placed in February and April. What goes up must come down, but has it come down enough for the next blast? Will there be a next blast? On the daily chart, the New York Stock Exchange Bitcoin Index would have to take out that 18500 high before it could be said that a new uptrend is unfolding. You can see how the price can't quite make it back above the Ichimoku cloud -- that's the technical analysis indicator derived from a comparison of the 9-day highs and lows and the 26-day highs and lows. It's one way chart readers analyze moving average dynamics. Above is thought to indicate bullishness, below bearishness. The weekly chart takes us back to 2015. From there to here, the uptrend on this time frame continues intact. So far, the bitcoin price remains above the cloud, although it's only just above it for now. The April low near 6500 is the next level of support -- where significant buying showed up. Can it hold that level on the next test? That's the question. Many algorithms will be watching closely. On the monthly chart, the selling that began late last year has barely dinged the overall uptrend. I've connected the lows from 2015 and 2016 to indicate the uptrend -- it's that red dotted line below the prices. A close below that line might suggest that the long-term uptrend has ended. But, that's a long way from here. Note that the "relative strength" indicator above the chart has come out of its "overbought" level for the first time since the index was created. Here's the last chart -- it's old-school point and figure work designed to give us a close-up view of the price action. The x's are for upward periods and the o's are for downward periods. The knowledge we gain here is the potential support level indicated by 2 places on the chart where the previous downward movement stopped: that's the 6600 index level. A close below that would suggest that the downtrend remains in place, according to the point and figure school. It's worthwhile to consider charts like these because it's one way of removing the influence of just reading the news about bitcoin -- or attempting to analyze it from a fundamental standpoint. The only thing that matters here is price which gives us trend and support and resistance levels to watch. If you're looking for fundamental research on bitcoin, crypto currencies and block chain, you might want to read the recent work of Forbes contributor Roger Aitkin right here or go to the Forbes "topic" page on the subject right here. I take a similar look at oil price charts right here. I do not have positions in these investments. No recommendation is made either long or short. If you're an investor, you'd want to look much deeper into these situations. Always do your own independent research, due diligence and seek professional advice from a licensed investment adviser. 