Sooner or later—let’s hope very much later—a combination of high stock valuations, the withdrawal of central bank monetary stimulus, rising interest rates and illiquidity in the market will trigger a decline in common stock valuations. Meanwhile, the earnings growth is very impressive with the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index growing profits by 26%, the best three months since the fourth quarter of 2010. S&P earnings have now increased at a double digit pace for 4 of the past 5 quarters. 2017 was the first year of global economic growth since 2009 and expectations are solid for the remainder of 2018. Growth is broadly based as 89% of the S&P 500 companies are enjoying rising sales. Blackstone, a private equity firms, reports the profits of its portfolio companies are rising at double-digit rates. The Economist, an influential British weekly magazine with a global following, has pronounced these developments as “a boom like no other.” The number of companies in the index that are beating earnings expectations is almost 80%, while estimates for the next four quarters are rising, an extremely rare positive development. In the energy field, rising crude oil prices are contributing to the current bullish swing in the shares of oil and gas producers like Chevron and others. In other words, we may not have experienced the peak earnings for this period, as many experts have suggested, Companies with foreign earnings are expected to grow faster on average. At the current estimate of yearly profits for the broad market average of $152.50, the S&P 500 is more or less fairly priced at 17 times earnings. Thus, we may not be so near an earnings peak for the stock market. David Scudder, chairman of Aureus Investment Management in Boston, who has had a long distinguished career in Boston financial circles, says “ We are in a transition phase where valuations can come down but earnings will go up.” Scudder sees the Fed raising interest rates and that will begin to sow down the economy over the next two to four years. He sees a federal funds rate of 3%+, a 10-year Treasury yield of 4%, and a 30-year rate of 4.5%. As interest rates climb, there will be a negative impact on stock price-earnings multiples Some con other consensus estimates are calling for slower growth over the next two to three years, despite the lack of push-pull wage cost pressures and the rise of the interest rate cost of to 3.1%. The Economic Cycle Research Institute, in a study of global industrial outlook, says growth is slowing and will keep easing for the foreseeable future, with no end in sight.” Scudder figures the giant corporate tax deduction has pushed the federal deficit up from 2% to 4% of GDP, which won’t be offset by substantial growth due to the record low rate of unemployment. The reason interest rates will climb is that the budget took off spending limits on defense and non-defense items, according to Scudder. Furthermore, the Fed and Treasury have to raise more money in the marketplace to finance the deficit, just at the very moment the budget deficit is widening. 