Australian gas has seen an uptick in mergers and acquisitions (M&A) recently, with Mitsui wining the bidding war for AWE, and Woodside acquiring ExxonMobil's Scarborough stake. Subsequently, Harbour's overtures to Santos raised the prospect of the largest oil and gas deal in Australian history, only to be quashed by Santos' board under cover of a rally of oil prices. So as we enter the (southern) winter of bankers’ discontent, why not consider these three outlandish M&A ideas - ideas which may perhaps prove more profound and sensible than they seem at first glance: Small cap consolidation: The big margins to be made on the east coast domestic gas landscape are migrating away from new upstream production to gas marketing optimisation and trading operations. We expect over AUD$3/GJ seasonal variations in domestic gas prices, larger than the relatively marginal economics of undeveloped supply projects. Players with a geographic diversity of supply sources across the east coast, alongside transport and storage infrastructure access, will capitalise on the new gas trading opportunity. This means the likes of Beach, Cooper, Senex, Central and Strike could be worth more together than the sum of their parts. More so after some will be re-rated by the market when reaching critical scale. But ego and complexity may get in the way a consolidated east coast domestic gas juggernaut forming, and some of those smaller players may find themselves being picked off individually. For example, Senex could prove a natural acquisition for Santos given existing adjacencies and contract positions. Although EIG’s position in Senex makes such a play more interesting, depending on how willing EIG is to play ball with Santos after the Harbour snub. Shell lusts after power. Given it has the most flexible gas molecules, Shell is in prime position to be kingmaker in the east coast gas supply and trading landscape. And Shell understands that integrating into power generation is a desirable nexus to complement gas trading operations, develop its new energies decarbonised footprint, and will add an extra layer of competition into the concentrated market, all putting a retail power acquisition on the radar. To acquire a retail gas and power position, a match with AGL would, on the face of it, appear ideal. For all its Queensland supply flexibility, Shell lags behind the legacy gas aggregators in crucial transport and storage access, and building this up organically will take time. Meanwhile, AGL has a leading retail power and gas position alongside infrastructure contracts, but is short on gas molecules. Shell acquiring AGL would create an ultimate integrated gas and power player, able to provide more flexible and better terms to customers, with the coal assets spun out to allay government and Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) concerns. But the optics of AGL’s coal position alongside complexity of a carve-out probably rules out Shell's appetite for such an approach. Origin presents as an alternative target for Shell, which would also provide similar benefits alongside additional synergies at the Queensland coal-seam gas LNG assets. Otherwise, more bite-size possibilities such as Engie or ERM's power footprint are left to consider. Plus any shakeout from the government and ACCC's focus on the sector, with a view to disrupting market concentration, may bring additional opportunities to the fore. The double W: And if the above ideas are not outlandish enough, how about Wesfarmers marrying Woodside? Both are Western Australian icons and the board relationships are essentially family. Woodside's assets present strong synergies with Wesfarmers’ current and potential future downstream positions. And Shell is no longer a blocker on the register. There are no Foreign Investment Review Board issues to negotiate - such as those that plagued Shell in its past takeover ambitions. And with cashflow freed up post a Coles spin-off, Wesfarmers doth protest too much with their denials of needing a large-scale acquisition. The better question is why shouldn't Wesfarmers buy Woodside and what's stopping such a deal? If Wesfarmers swallowed Woodside, it could divest peripheral non-LNG related assets, take domestic gas interests into their energy division, leverage up the infrastructure, and perhaps bolt on BHP’s Australian assets, an Oil Search or Santos before looking to spin the LNG platform off into a tighter market some years down the line, stealing a page from Harbour’s playbook. 