Once again, Petrobras’ top brass has pulled a fast one on its shareholders. CEO Pedro Parente probably had no choice. He submitted his resignation letter to Brazil’s president Michel Temer today. And while the oil unions and the "oil is ours!" brigade might have a Cheshire cat-like smile on their faces Friday, the return to single digits for Petrobras stock effects each and every Petrobras employee, from the college-educated engineer, to the high school graduate covered in oil and working in a hard hat off a floating rig in the Atlantic Ocean. Their pension values are sinking right along with what seems to be a perpetual crisis Petrobras cannot fully shake. Petrobras is back to being the riskiest integrated oil bet in the Americas. Parente announced his resignation just days after dismissing rumors that he was on his way out to go to Brasil Foods. For his part, Parente’s hands were tied by the government. It was unlikely that he would last the year, let alone continue at the helm of this beleaguered oil giant into 2019. Brazil elects a new government in October. Last week, Temer surprised the country by saying the government would raise prices on diesel fuel by 10%. Truckers went on strike. The strike lasted over a week, with food deliveries not making it to supermarkets, jet fuel not making it to airports, and all other types of fuel–from propane for cooking to gasoline–not making it to filling stations. It was a mess. Panicked, Temer relented and agreed to keep prices stable for as long as 60 days. The plan is to cut taxes to make up for the price hike. The bulk of the striking truckers went back to work. The last 48 hours have seen President Temer flip-flop on fuel price controls. He seems now to be entertaining the idea of capping diesel fuel prices, an idea that goes against what Parente was hired to do. It is unclear whether or not these prices will be capped, or allowed to rise and fall with the import costs of refined fuels. In his resignation letter today, Parente said the truckers strike led to an “intense” and at times “emotional debate” about the origins of the crisis. “It put Petrobras pricing policy under intense scrutiny,” he wrote. Petrobras had price controls on gas and diesel for more than a decade. The country does not have the refining capacity and is forced to import refined fuels. Because of the international price of oil and the fluctuating currency, Petrobras is often paying higher prices for the fuel than it can transfer downstream to consumers. For this reason, it has become one of the most indebted companies in the world. Unable to make much of a profit off of fuel, it increasingly turned to debt markets. It used to be an investment-grade credit. Today, Petrobras is a junk bond. In fact, one of the reasons why Brazil’s credit rating is junk is because of the mismanagement and corruption at Petrobras and in Brasilia, the nation’s capital. At one point, Petrobras purchased a 90-something-year-old refinery in Pasadena, Texas, under president Dilma Rousseff. They understood they needed more refineries, and buying one in the U.S. made sense. Only, they grossly overpaid for it. Worse, much of the money was siphoned offshore as a bonus to political dealmakers and influence peddlers. The Pasadena Refining System was a way for Petrobras to refine fuel it could then ship to Brazil. The idea got them nowhere. The thing caught fire in 2016. And now they are trying to dump it. For sure they will take a loss on the sale of that dinosaur. It belongs in the Jurassic Park of refineries at this point. Back to Pedro’s resignation letter: The CEO said people do not understand the global nature of the fuels market, and how a weaker currency and higher oil prices impact people at the pump. He said the move forced the government to act. He did not come down against price controls. Parente’s resignation is irrevocable. He is staying onboard until a new CEO is found. Petrobras shares fell over 18% as of noontime in New York on Friday. They will likely keep falling until the government makes its pricing policy clear. If there is a chance that fuel prices will be capped, foreign investors will sell. Brazil's government needs to bring in a market-friendly CEO with demonstrable chops in running a publicly traded oil company. Until then, investors should expect strong headwinds to hit Petrobras for the remainder of the year. 