In response to growing anxiety over rising oil prices from major oil consumers, Saudi Arabia's oil minister, Khalid al-Falih, and Russia's oil minister, Alexander Novak, met privately in St. Petersburg during the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum to discuss possibly increasing oil production. The outcome, according to Saudi minister al-Falih, would be to gradually bring more barrels of oil to the market from OPEC and non-OPEC countries currently participating in the OPEC/Non-OPEC production cut deal. Al-Falih signaled that this could be up to 1 million barrels per day and could begin in the second half of 2018.  Oil prices fell by more than 2% in futures trading after the announcement from al-Falih and Novak .    The most pressing concerns for al-Falih and Novak, in terms of oil production, are Venezuela's falling output and the impact of recently reinstated U.S. sanctions on Iran. Venezuela's oil production has steadily declined over the past year, but in recent weeks the situation there has become even more serious. The latest S&P Platts survey showed Venezuela's production hit a record low of 1.41 million barrels per day in April. ConocoPhillips COP +0%  The impact of U.S. sanctions on Iran is still unclear, but Russian oil minister Alexander Novak believes that the sanctions have pushed up oil prices by anywhere from $5 to $7 per barrel . One of Iran's major oil customers, India, said that although it has not yet cut its imports from Iran, it is watching closely to see, "how strongly the U.S. takes up sanctions," and may cut Iranian oil in favor of other Middle Eastern oil suppliers if pressured by the United States. China has also expressed concerns about rising oil prices and lack of adequate supply, but has not signaled whether it plans to reduce its imports from Iran. U.S. oil production is unlikely to be able to take the place of Venezuelan and Iranian oil in the market, owing to bottlenecks in transportation and differences in the grade of crude oil that make U.S. oil less desirable to those used to importing Venezuelan and Iranian crude. OPEC and its partners in the 2016 production cut deal are unlikely to abandon their production cuts entirely when they meet on June 22 in Vienna. In fact, the group will likely keep its overall production ceiling in place, but will ease constraints on those producers who are able to increase production. The benefits of keeping the deal in place while formally or informally allowing some members to increase production are several. As I previously told the Wall Street Journal, it would allow members of the OPEC/Non-OPEC group to strengthen their commitment to this group as an institution capable of responding to changes in the market. OPEC producers Venezuela, Angola, Algeria and Saudi Arabia, all produced under their allocations in April. Of these countries, Saudi Arabia is the only country that voluntarily reduced its production in a significant way. Non-OPEC producer Mexico was also forced to cut oil production involuntarily due to aging oil fields. Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Kazakstan, the UAE and Russia could all increase production. Bloomberg reported that Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf oil producers appear to be seeking a modest increase of 300,000 barrels per day, while Russia is looking for an 800,000 barrel per day increase.   