Oil prices may be showing some signs of weakness these days, but they still remain higher than they have been for most of the past four years. That in turn prompts a perennial question for the oi-rich countries of the Middle East: whether they are willing and able to sustain their much-needed economic reform programmes when there appears to be no immediate requirement to do so. Governments in the Gulf region have been under sustained pressure to remodel their economies since late 2014, when oil prices plunged from over $100 a barrel (bbl) to less than $50/bbl, dragging budgets into deficit. The higher prices of recent weeks – Brent crude has been selling for more than $70/bbl since early April – means the pressure has been easing on finance ministries and many are now looking forward to running budget surpluses this year, for the first time in many years. The changed circumstances already seem to be having an impact on policy-making, with purse-strings being loosened and new taxes delayed. In the UAE, for example, the authorities announced in May that all serving and retired government employees would be given an extra month’s pay to mark the centenary of the birth of the country’s founding father Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al-Nahyan, at an estimated cost of some AED1.6bn ($435m).    In the same month in Kuwait, parliament voted to delay the introduction of a value-added tax (VAT) until 2021. To date Saudi Arabia and the UAE are the only countries among the six members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) to have implemented VAT, even though all six had originally agreed to do so at the same time. It is understandable that such decisions might be made. After several years of impressing upon their populations that austerity measures were unavoidable because of low oil revenues, governments now find the logic of that argument harder to sustain. London-based Capital Economics estimates that, at $80 a barrel, the Gulf region’s annual export revenues would be $170bn higher this year than last year. Prices aren’t quite at that level right now, but they’re not far off. Yet, reforms are still vital. More governments may be able to run budget surpluses this year, but not all of them – Bahrain, Oman and Saudi Arabia all need prices above $80/bbl to balance their budgets. And even if oil prices do climb further, the characteristics of Gulf economies – with their quickly-growing, young populations – mean that, in the longer-term, these countries still have to find ways to diversify away from their historical reliance on oil and gas revenues which has underpinned systems in which most locals work for public-sector employers. As the sporadic introduction of VAT around the region highlights, the GCC countries are not acting in a uniform way when it comes to implementing economic reforms. “We have seen varying degrees of action. We have seen varying degrees of ambition,” says Alastair Wilson, managing director of global sovereign ratings at Moody’s Investors Service. “Saudi Arabia [has] very ambitious plans over the next 10 to 12 years. Whether or not it achieves all of them... ambition is certainly there. "At the other end is probably Oman [which is] probably the least ambitious - perhaps for political, social reasons there is a clear desire from the authorities not to move fast and perhaps hope that oil prices will bail them out.” Even Saudi Arabia’s commitment to reform is not being taken for granted by outside observers though. In its latest review of the Saudi economy, released on May 22, the IMF gently reminded Riyadh of the dangers of taking its eye off the ball. While noting that “the government remains committed to wide-ranging economic and social reform to transform the economy,” Tim Callen, head of the IMF mission to Saudi Arabia, also encouraged the government to ensure its policies match its stated aims of boosting private sector activity. “The respective roles of the public and private sectors in developing the non-oil economy need to be carefully considered,” he said in a statement issued after he and his team had visited the kingdom. “While the public sector can be a catalyst for the development of some new sectors, it is important that it does not crowd-out private sector involvement, nor remain a long-term player in markets where private enterprises can thrive on their own.” Riyadh has made multiple reversals in recent years in its austerity programme, either when fiscal conditions allowed or public disquiet grew too problematic. To take a few examples, electricity and water minister Abdullah Al Hasin was sacked in April 2016 after complaints over a revised tariff system he had introduced, cuts to subsidies and public sector bonuses were reversed in September that year, and there was a raise in public sector salaries and stipends for royal family members in the early months of this year. There has also been back-sliding on the social reform programme, shown most recently with the arrest of at least a dozen activists who had been campaigning to end the ban on women driving and on the guardianship system which prevents women from doing many things without approval from a male relative. Even though the government is set to lift the driving ban in June, that did not prevent the authorities arresting the campaigners, with the pliant local media then duly castigating them as traitors and spies. The arrests may be a sign that the government is grappling with the need to placate hard-line conservatives even as it tries to appeal to younger reform-minded locals by loosening the shackles on society and the economy. The seemingly contradictory nature of the stances adopted by the authorities in Saudi Arabia has also encouraged speculation about the position of the cheerleader-in-chief of the reform programme, crown prince Mohammed bin Salman (MBS), who has adopted an unusually low profile in recent weeks. Elsewhere, though, other economic reforms continue to be made. On May 20, the UAE announced plans to relax its visa conditions for some expats and lift some foreign ownership restrictions on businesses. That puts them in line with similar moves by Qatar over the past year and shows that the reform momentum hasn’t entirely disappeared in the Gulf. That gives reason to suppose that governments are not going to ease off on restructuring and austerity completely, and will not allow themselves to be seduced by high oil prices into thinking reforms can be cancelled or reversed. Capital Economics noted in a report issued on May 18 that “while there has clearly been a shift in most Gulf countries away from the harsh austerity of recent years, we suspect any fiscal loosening will be limited.” And it added that if oil prices fall back to $55-60/bbl over the next couple of years, which it expects, then “fiscal austerity is likely to come back on to the agenda in Saudi Arabia”. That highlights the fact that oil market movements remain the central concern for Gulf economies, despite all the high-profile efforts at diversification over the past few years. That is as true for the UAE and others as it is for Saudi Arabia. Hasnain Malik, head of equity research at Exotix Capital, thinks the UAE’s new visa and ownership rules are “small positives for the long-term, non-oil, economic outlook of the UAE” but, in a research note published on May 21, he wrote “overall, the increase in oil price probably matters much more than these new rules in the foreseeable future, in terms of both the funding for government-related spending and the inbound investment flows from regional wealth tied to oil.” 