Tuesday’s spike in Italian bond yields brought out many latent stock market bears that warned about a global contagion and the impact it would have on the U.S. stock market and economy. Of course, U.S. yields and stocks dropped sharply on the news, as the Dow Industrials was down 505 points during the day. Several of the key averages reached their daily starc- bands during the day. As I noted in a pre-market commentary on Wednesday, this indicated they were in a high-risk sell area and suggested that the market decline was overdone. It was also an encouraging sign that the small cap stocks were only down slightly, and that the market internals actually improved throughout the day. The rebound on Wednesday was strong, as the widely watched ETFs, like the Spyder Trust (SPY) and PowerShares QQQ Trust (QQQ), were able to move above the prior day’s highs. Even more impressive were the market internals, as the NYSE A/D ratios were over 4 to 1 positive. Thursday’s open was confronted by the news that steel and aluminum tariffs would go into effect after midnight. This quickly dampened Wednesday’s enthusiasm as the Dow Industrials closed down 252 points, or 1%, while the S&P 500 was down 0.70%. The market bears were out in force as the Total Put/Call ratio closed at 1.13, the highest reading since April 2. Those who watched the press conference with Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau were likely troubled, as was I, at the severity of his tone and comments. Though Trump officials called this a “family spat,” these kinds of trade threats by U.S. allies who have fought in battles with us since WWII shouldn't be taken lightly. Of course, those who went short on Thursday were likely hurt early Friday, as the strong jobs report, with upward revisions of previous numbers, pushed stock prices sharply higher early Friday. If the financial markets did not receive enough news to ponder in the holiday-shortened week, President Trump tweeted about the jobs report well in advance. As if traders and investors were not on edge already, the implication of early tweets on future economic reports is also unnerving. This has not helped calm those investors who were already negative about the market due to the high market volatility in 2018. In last week’s survey by the American Association of Individual Investors (AAII), the bullish percent dropped 3.5 points to 35% while the bearish percent rose 1.2 points to 26.4%. Since early May, there were early signs that the balance of evidence was shifting to the bulls. I had been waiting for the advance/decline lines to move out of the corrective mode, which occurred the next week as the S&P 500 A/D line (see below) moved to new highs. Even though the daily technical outlook has been positive ever since then, the wide swings are still keeping many investors out of the market. This makes it necessary to carefully identify your entry levels. In last weekend’s article, I revealed my strategy “to place buy orders in those ETFs and stocks that are outperforming the S&P 500 at price levels that are closer to stronger support." Those looking at the major averages are likely disappointed with the fact that, since the end of April, the Spyder Trust (SPY) is up only 3.3% and is still 4.3% below its January all-time high. In contrast, two of the Viper ETF picks with bullish relative performance, the VanEck Vectors Semiconductor (SMH) and First Trust Dow Jones Internet (FDN) are up 12.3% and 10.3% since the end of April. The wild gyrations this week have required, much like Whac-A-Mole, that market bulls respond to every piece of bad news that pops up. The bearish attitude is still quite present in the financial press, but that is a normal in the transition from a continuation pattern to a new uptrend. Additionally, the bearish commentary keeps the long side from getting too crowded. Still, mentally, it is hard to buy with confidence when the market is getting slapped around, and that is why my methodology is based on identifying a good buy level, and placing a stop that sufficiently limits the risk. Then, by having orders in the market, these buy levels can be hit when the market does corrects. This requires a systematic approach. Every weekend, I review these key sector ETFs. I want to see if there have been any changes in the RS or OBV analysis to indicate they should be bought or sold. This table was as of the close on May 25. As you can see, the indicators on SPY, QQQ and IWM were all positive, but not DIA. This helped confirm that we were in the right ETFs, as IWM had been a market leader since March. The consumer discretionary ETF (XLY) and energy (XLE) were uniformly positive but the OBV on technology (XLK) was lagging even though the RS and price action were positive. The financial ETFs, VFH and XLF, were acting negative which was a sign I should continue to avoid them. When I am looking to establish a new position, I look for signs of improvement in these weekly technical studies, as the RS or OBV do not always turn positive or negative at the same time. When changes are noted, then these are the ETFs I monitor more closely. Last week, one of them did generate a new positive signal. The 1.6% gain in the PowerShares QQQ Trust (QQQ) on Friday was impressive, but some of the tech giants, like Intel Corp (INTC), up 3.4%, and Microsoft (MSFT), up 2%, did even better. Both made new all-time highs last week and were added to the Viper Hot Stocks portfolio as a result of my stock screening process. In addition to the much stronger than expected monthly jobs report on Friday, the other economic data continues to support a strong outlook for the U.S. economy. The monthly reading on Consumer Confidence came in at 128, up from April’s down ward revised 125.6. This important reading on the attitudes of the consumer completed its bottom in September 2016, overcoming the resistance (line a). Last Wednesday’s updated reading on the second quarter GDP came in as expected at 2.2%, while Thursday’s Chicago PMI, which measures business conditions in the Chicago area, soared to 62.7 well above the expected 58.4 reading. The ISM Manufacturing Index was strong at 58.7, but as Econoday noted, “still understates the strength of the ISM manufacturing report,” as the individual components of the report are showing even more positive behavior. This week, we have the ISM Non-Manufacturing and PMI Services Index on Tuesday but the lack of further reports this week might mean a less tumultuous bond market. The drop below the uptrend in the 10-Year T-Note Yield (line a) a week ago had more implications than I expected. The yield opened at 2.879% on Tuesday, and had a low 2.759%. It is not surprising that the Bill Gross-managed Janus Henderson Investors Global Unconstrained Bond Fund lost almost 3% on the day because of the widening gap between US and German bund yields. The daily MACD is solidly negative and technically yields are still in a downtrend. It has been a rough two weeks for crude oil prices, as after a high of $72.70 on May 22nd, it had a low Friday of $65.48. This decline has dropped the open interest from overly bullish levels, as many who were long crude oil were likely forced to sell. The monthly pivot for the August contract is at 464.21, with the 38.2% Fibonacci support at $62.15. The weekly on-balance-volume (OBV) made a new high with prices, as the Herrick Payoff Index (HPI), which uses volume, open interest and price action to determine money flow. The HPI did drop below its WMA and support (line a) last week. Still there are no signs of a major top at this point so this decline should be a buying opportunity. For the week in stocks, the Dow Industrials were were down 0.48% for the week, despite the 219 point gain on Friday. The Dow Transports were a bit lower, while the S&P 500 was up 0.49%. Leading the averages was the Nasdaq 100 (up 1.80%) and the small cap Russell 2000 (up over 1%). On the NYSE, there were 1792 stocks advancing for the week, with 1274 declining. The stock market’s ability to hold up last week in the face of developments that are typically negative is consistent with the internal strength I have been discussing since my May 12 article, “Has Cramer’s ‘Stupid Market’ Actually Bottomed?” During the depths of the early February decline, I felt the action was “consistent with a correction, not the start of a bear market or more severe correction.” It seems this was the case, as the Spyder Trust (SPY) completed its continuation pattern (lines a and b) with the close on May 11. This was confirmed by the move in the S&P 500 A/D Line above its resistance (line c) as it made a new high. The weekly price action last week suggests that the SPY may be ready to move sharply higher, as the weekly on-balance-volume (OBV) moved back above its WMA. Some analysts are waiting for the S&P 500 to move above 2750-2800 before they turn bullish. There is weekly chart resistance now at $279.29 with the weekly starc+ band at $287.11. The initial price targets from the chart formation are in the $288-$290 area. The iShares Russell 2000 (IWM) had another good week, closing near the highs and well above the break out level (line a) at $159.59. The weekly starc+ band has risen to $169.75 and the initial chart targets are in the $168-$169 area. The Russell 2000 A/D line broke through its resistance (line c) four weeks ago, and made another new high last week. The IWM's relative performance against the S&P 500 is rising sharply, indicating it is a market leader. Clearly my analysis favors the long side but in order to profit in this Whac-A-Mole I think it is critical that you be in the right sector ETFs or stocks. My favorites continue be technology and consumer discretionary but health care is also looking more interesting. I continue to favor the small cap sector as it shows no signs of giving up its leadership, even though IWM is already up 8.5% over the past three months. For those not in the small cap stocks, I would recommend the “dollar cost averaging approach,” where you invest equal amounts over the next four or five weeks until you have invested the total amount you have committed to the small cap sector. In my March article “Is It Time To Rotate into Small Cap Stocks” I mentioned the following small cap ETFs as ones to watch:  iShares Core S&P Small-Cap ETF (IJR)  Vanguard Small-Cap ETF (VB)  Schwab U.S. Small-Cap ETF (SCHA)  SPDR Portfolio Small Cap ETF (SPSM) Viper ETF investors are already in the Vanguard Small-Cap Growth Index (VBK). If the market does have another 200-300 point Dow decline in the next few weeks, which is likely, I would view it as a buying opportunity for small cap funds. In my Viper ETF and Viper Hot Stocks Reports, which come out twice each week, and I give specific recommendations. Each in-depth report is only $34.95 per month and can be canceled online at any time.