In spite of the global trade tensions and on-going U.S. political turmoil, stocks recorded a very strong performance last week. The gains were solid with the Dow Industrials up 2.8%, the S&P 500 up 1.6%, and the market-leading Russell 2000 up 1.5%. The weekly A/D numbers were strong, with 2086 stocks on the NYSE advancing and just 998 declining. The strong gains caught many by surprise. As Barron’s commented, “Few of us would have imagined that the Dow Jones Industrial Average would gain 681.32 points.” I was not that surprised, as I commented last weekend that, “The weekly price action last week suggests that the SPY may be ready to move sharply higher.” The rally since early May has surprised many on Wall Street, as the "Wall of Worry” has grown since stocks plunged in early February. The day after the February lows, I raised the possibility that the market had bottomed, and subsequently recommended new long positions before the next day’s open. The S&P 500 has not dropped below the February 9 low of 2532, and is now 9.7% higher.    By the end of the first quarter, the bearish camp had become more crowded, as columns like “Global Weekly Charts Predict Worldwide Bear Market For Stocks” became more common. This was evident in the American Association of Individual Investors survey on investor sentiment. The AAII bullish percent, after peaking at 59.75% in early January, had formed a clear downtrend (line a) which was broken in early May. The bullish sentiment last week, at 38.93%, was the highest since February. Comments from TD Ameritrade last week indicated individual investors were getting back into stocks. This gradual deterioration in bullish sentiment is typical of a market correction. As the correction persists, professional traders typically start changing their outlook, while the individual investor becomes disillusioned with the stock market. But by May 4, there were technical signs that the stock market was closer to bottoming, as demonstrated in “Should You Be Getting Ready to Buy?”. Even though there was no change in the economic outlook and the political turmoil was still shocking the markets it was the technical not the fundamental evidence that turned my outlook more positive. Specifically, there had been signs of improvement since the NYSE Advance/Decline line made a new high on April 18 (see tweet). Many investors or traders, who have been following a fundamental approach, have been left on the sidelines for the past five weeks. For the past several months, I have been telling readers to be patient with the market, as I felt confident that the continuation pattern would be resolved by new highs in the major averages: March 24: The Week Ahead: Should Investors Start Preparing For A Bear Market? April 15: The Week Ahead Charts- Any Signs Of A Market Turn? April 28: The Week Ahead: The Good And Bad News For Investors May 12: The Week Ahead: Has Cramer's 'Stupid Market' Actually Bottomed? In order for me to be confident that the market’s correction was over, I needed a majority of five major A/D lines to move out of their corrective patterns. In my method of analyzing the A/D lines, I look at the monthly, weekly and daily charts. The monthly S&P 500 A/D line made a new high in January, and never came even close to dropping below its WMA which was a bullish sign for the major trend. After a one-week drop below its WMA in March, the weekly A/D line then moved back above its WMA at the end of the month.     The fact that the S&P 500, Nasdaq 100, and Russell 2000 A/D lines had all completed their correction by May 10 was a bullish signal, and a reason to add long positions. For most of May, many strategists had remained skeptical or at least cautious about the stock market. On May 9, DoubleLine Capital’s Jeff Gundlach made another bearish market call. (This link was in error as it was from last year's Sohn conference. Also I was sent this article from May 23, 2018 regarding Mr. Gundlach's use of technical analysis. Having read his comments and listened to his interviews for many years this was the first time I have heard him refer to technical analysis. My apologies to Mr. Gundlach and my readers for the error and the incorrect assumption- Tom)  At the end of May, Morgan Stanley’s chief equity analyst Mike Wilson commented that “we’re in a rolling bear market.” It is clear that both Mr. Gundlach and Mr. Wilson do not use technical analysis. Additionally, those technical analysts that do not use market internals are likely to miss these turning points.  Clearly the action over the past month, and over the entire bull market, have provided more convincing evidence that technical analysis is far superior to fundamental analysis. The action last week convinced a few more on Wall Street that the market’s trend was positive, but as I have been saying for the past month, some are still waiting for the S&P 500 to overcome the 2800 level before they'll be convinced.  There will be plenty next week for the market to deal with, after a light economic calendar last week. The FOMC meeting and Trump’s North Korea meeting both start on Tuesday. Also on Tuesday, we get the Consumer Price Index, which will be followed by the Atlanta Fed Business Inflation Expectations. The FOMC announcement will start being dissected Wednesday afternoon, which will set the stage for Thursday’s Retail Sales and Business Inventories. On Friday, we get the Empire State Manufacturing Survey, Industrial Production and Consumer Sentiment. If we do get a bad number this week, it should be ignored. My overall outlook for the economy remains positive, and it would take several months of soft data for my view to change.      As I expected last week, crude oil declined a bit further, though it closed only barely lower. The August contract formed a doji, so a close this week above $66.16 will trigger a weekly doji buy signal. Investors and traders are still long the SPDR S&P Oil & Gas (XOP), and traders are looking to get back into the United States Oil Fund (USO). Market Wrap After last week’s action, I continue to favor the iShares Russell 2000 (IWM) and PowerShares QQQ Trust (QQQ). Since March 7, when I recommended rotating into small cap stocks, the IWM is up 6.5%, and over the past three months it has outperformed the SPY by 4.8%.      The daily chart of the iShares Russell 2000 (IWM) still looks strong after the breakout from its continuation pattern (lines a and b) on May 16th. The initial upside targets are now in the $168-$170 area with the quarterly pivot resistance at $168.72. There are additional chart targets in the $176-$178 area.  The breakout in IWM was not a surprise, as the Russell 2000 A/D line had already moved through its resistance (line c) several days earlier. Even though the overall market was still in a corrective mode, the IWM was recommended after it broke the major downtrend in the relative performance (line d). Both the A/D and RS continue to make new highs and are strong, as are the weekly indicators. The past periods when small cap stocks outperformed large cap stocks have lasted anywhere from five months to over a year. In each instance, there has been ample technical evidence when the small cap stocks start to underperform. Given my daily review the A/D lines and relative performance, I should be able to detect these changes in a very timely fashion.     The Nasdaq 100 A/D line completed its bottom on May 7th, when it moved above its downtrend (line c) and moved strongly above its WMA. The daily A/D line made a new high last week, as it surpassed the March high (line a). It is positive and well above its strongly-rising WMA.  While most of the market-tracking ETFs are now well-above support, which increases the risk in buying now, there continue to be ETFs that are just bottoming. Last week, I explained the process that I follow in my weekly analysis, and mentioned that there was one sector ETF that was on the verge of becoming a market leader. That was the Vanguard Health Care ETF (VHT), which was up 1.9% this past week. Last weekend, I advised traders to add long positions on Monday.     Of course, this a great stock-pickers market as there are many stocks that are just in the process of bottoming. In a recent article “Which FANG Stocks Look Best For A Summer Rally?” my analysis favored Amazon.com and Alphabet (GOOGL) and both are now up over 4%.  In fact, the problem I have been having in my weekend analysis is to select only one or two stocks to recommend. Regardless of the market conditions, I would pay careful attention to your entry level, and try to keep the risk at 5% or lower on each position. In my Viper ETF and Viper Hot Stocks Reports, which come out twice each week, I give specific buy and sell recommendations. Each in-depth report is only $34.95 per month and can be canceled online at any time.   