Irrational exuberance was some economist’s polite phrase for market stupidity. Did Alan Greenspan coin it? It reminds me more of John Maynard Keynes who individually traded successfully in commodities while he foresaw post World War I disaster. France and England had exacted enormous reparation from Germany who had no wherewithal to comply. The Western world thereby spawned Adolf Hitler, and then World War II ensued. For me, it is always sombrero time, but as a fully invested skeptic, I look to my sense of valuation to bail me out. A sombrero chart formation is normally a profile of a moribund property. Chartists chant Kaddish when denoting sombreros. It was WorldCom and U.S. Airways in the nineties. After the rollercoaster rides in 2008 – ‘09, you coulda bought Citigroup and Bank of America for a song. During the nineties NASDAQ, itself traced out its giant sombrero when professional investors proved out insanely stupid. At its peak JDS Uniphase sold at 100 times revenues (gimme a break!).    Judy’s prancing companions on the Yellow Brick Road had it right: You need a big heart, brain and courage. On 9/11, like the Tin Man, I coulda used a heart, but it had nothing to do with investing and everything to do with staying alive (I was too close to Ground Zero when the first plane plowed into the Twin Towers. I fled uptown at a fast walk). From pre-meltdown Internet insanity near 1,600 on the S&P 500 Index, the market traced a fat W formation. It touched down under 800 during the mini recession in 2002. Then it took off in a 45° upward slope until yearend 2007. The financial meltdown of 2008 to early ‘09 set the averages back again near 700. Yes, 700. Then we made the right side of the W, taking out the old 2000 high late in 2013. The market pulled away from all the edgy pundits who saw nothing but downside yearend 2013. Facebook’s gutsy $19 billion buy of WhatsApp didn’t panic its holders. Does everyone remember all this jitterbugging? That the market acted like a rusty rollercoaster over 14 years. Anyone who blithely distained even a moderately tolerant valuation model probably washed out or at least suffered several burnt fingers. I expected Facebook to drop 7% to 8%, overnight, the size of its implicit deal dilution for Instagram, still charging users just a buck, annually. Currently, despite lengthy reportage in The New York Times on Facebook’s cavalier treatment of its clientele’s personal histories, the stock hangs in near its highwater mark of $193. I’m hanging in, too. Hopefully, 2 billion users hang in, too, fingertips and all. I can’t prove that Facebook remains a momentum story, even better than Alphabet and Amazon. Alibaba, despite its enormous reach today, traces an undiminished pattern of growth, better than anything I’ve seen dating back to early sixties. Very scopey. Then, Polaroid and Xerox were considered best of the best and sold at greater valuations than our Internet and e-commerce properties. I remember a few tech jockeys then who promised money managers they’d log 2% monthly appreciation, and threw in Hewlett Packard, too. Instagram, bought by Facebook for $19 billion years ago is about to break out as an advertising revenue driver. In a couple of years revenues which started from scratch should approach $20 billion. So Instagram was bought for 1 times future revenues. This is known as a home run. Nowadays, I detect no mas hysteria for growth stocks. Who’s pounding the table? Obsolete analysts who quarterly miss their projected numbers by a mile, either too low or too high. Amazon cannot be modeled with a sharp pencil while Facebook and Alphabet carry issues on monetizing user lists to third parties. No Wall Street jockeys hold the ear of major money managers overweighted or underweighted in these growthies. Very few veteran hedge fund operators carry overweighted positions. The exception is Warren Buffett with a 21% asset weighting in Apple where I rest agnostic. Berkshire Hathaway’s gross overweighting in financials, particularly Wells Fargo, leaves me cold as well. Unless interest rates along the entire Treasuries spectrum of maturity spike by 100 basis points real soon, bank stocks could be dead paper next 12 months. JPMorgan Chase, for example, carries a price-earnings ratio in mid-teens. This is far above the historic bank yardstick of 60% of the S&P 500 valuation. If we’re at 17 times currently, bank should be selling at 10 times forward 12-months earnings power. Even Wells Fargo, after all their client screw-ups trades at 12 times estimated numbers. The conceptual basis for investing in banks is as a hedge against rising interest rates which normally depress the market’s price-earnings ratio. Additionally, higher stock trading volume, deal making and underwriting are adjuncts in a bull setting. As yet, these concepts are no closer to reality. Hopefully, they lurk just a quarter or 2 away. By process of elimination, you revert back to growth stocks, mainly tech houses, as the primary sector still ripe for aggressive overweighting. Yes, they’re multinationals, and the dollar is likely to wax stronger, but so what? Money managers look past gains or losses on currencies just as we prefer to use pretax earnings growth as the more reliable indicator of true growth, not after-tax numbers currently benefiting from today’s lower corporate rates. Parsing other sectors, energy is suspect after its huge rally in crude oil quotes. Basic industrials like machinery, farm equipment, even chemicals rest pricier, selling no longer at a discount to the market. Same goes for the materials sector - aluminum, steel and copper, caught up in the game of tariff touch football. Plenty of geopolitical risk herein. There’s a huge category of big capitalization stocks becalmed for good reasons. Earnings growth is barely perceptible. Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, Pfizer, Schlumberger come to mind. Railroads like CSX and Union Pacific sell at big premiums to the market. Analysts must extrapolate earnings out a couple of years to find a reason for recommendation. I do play in high yield sectors like MLPs, but they’re tied to the price of oil and rallied big past few months. As of this writing, I’m expecting at least a Solomon like decision from the Federal court on the AT&T deal for Time Warner. T yields 6%, better than a BB debenture, but progressive cord cutting by cable television subscribers remains an ongoing negative absent deal approval. There’s always mispriced big cap paper ticking away. General Motors was my favorite, disdained by the analyst fraternity, but no longer. Is Apple a mispriced piece of paper trading at a market multiplier? Not exactly if the iPhone has peaked as a product category, my call. Their R&D ratio to revenues is on the slim side for a tech house, and they need some new toys to captivate their clientele. Growth in subscription services is nice but still a small part of revenues and can’t carry the company. Because there’s a healthy sense of disbelief that e-commerce and Internet houses aren’t suspended in valuation bubbles, any and all upside surprises in revenues and earnings translate into price bumps of 5% to 10%, overnight. Fifty analysts then must reconfigure their music sheets for the next 12 to 24 months’ earnings show. In this category rest Facebook, Alphabet, Amazon, Alibaba, even Microsoft, Nvidia and Netflix. With enough trouble modeling Amazon, I passed on Netflix but I own the rest, overweighted nearly 2 to 1. So, if these doggies are 20% of the market, I’m above 40%. You could say this SOB is headed for a fall, but year-to-date they’re outperformers. Over 12 months we’re talking at least 20% for Alphabet and Facebook, but much more in Alibaba (still unlisted), Amazon and Netflix, more than a double. While latest quarterly 13Fs showed a handful of high intensity honchos warming up to this paper, they’re late and playing catch-up. What’s notable is that Facebook with all its notorious transgressions detailed in the consumer and financial press, presently trades below its high. If you want to see what a momentum story looks like, read their latest quarterly report. In the sixties and seventies Warren Buffett correctly perceived print media houses as unassailable franchises. He was right, but then later he was wrong. As a stock, The New York Times past 30 years sadly was becalmed, underperforming, management oblivious to change. The Washington Post is now owned by Jeff Bezos as a toy. Facebook can be perceived as a great and growing media house with burgeoning advertising revenues and a prospective audience of 2 billion users. Maybe, they can’t raise advertising rates much higher, but we’ll see soon enough. Grandmothers, where are you? Buy 10 shares of Facebook for each of your darlings. Going to the moon with just a handful of mispriced stocks shouldn’t be ceded to a handful of operators like Buffett and Carl Icahn. Portfolios of 30 stocks face mediocre results. Better use the NASDAQ 100 Index unless you feel tech valuation is overstretched. Sosnoff and his managed accounts own: Facebook, Citigroup, Bank of America, Alphabet, Amazon, Alibaba, Wells Fargo preferreds, JPMorgan Chase, AT&T, General Motors, Microsoft and Nvidia.  msosnoff@gmail.com   