CressCap currently lists PVAC as one of the top U.S. equities with a sector rank of 6/101. Penn Virginia’s leading position in oil and gas exploration and production in the Eagle Ford basin in Texas and the company’s impressive financials lead it to be one of CressCap’s top picks. The foundation of our recommendations is to identify companies that perform best and worst on the collective basis of value, growth, EPS revisions, profitability, and LT momentum. The CressCap systematic trading model gathers data daily on 6,500 companies globally and assigns academic grades (A - F) for each financial metric. These grades are scored relative to its region/sector. Penn Virginia Corporation is a small cap corporation that explores for and produces crude oil and natural gas. PVAC has a primary focus in Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas. At the end of July, the company purchased 20,000 acres in the Eagle Ford Shale field from Devon Energy. This increases the company's total acreage, in the area, to a net 120,000 acres or 18% of the Eagle Ford Shale field. PVAC reported record production from shale of 16 million boepd and expects further increases to 22-25 million in the year ahead.    Water and sand of the right size are critical components to fracking operations. Under the right conditions, fracking can require as much as 100x the volume of water to produce a barrel of oil. Thus, water management can represent up to 55% of costs for a fracking operation. PVAC's increased investment in Eagle Ford potentially offsets the higher water disposal costs associated with production in Pennsylvania fields. Likewise, fracking sand has become a critical supply constraint, further straining production and cash flows in Texas. This is why we think profits, but not growth, have suffered in the last two quarters. We believe that PVAC is well positioned to benefit from higher oil prices and further growth in production in its Eagle Ford fields. The company's scores on CressCap's 5-factor model show accelerating price momentum and favorable estimate revisions improving to A+ grades for both from D- and F last quarter respectively. Growth and value are solid with A- and B+ CressCap grades; EPS growth is expected to be 280% this year and 44% next year, while EV/FCF is a 4.5x vs. 6.9x for peers. PVAC is rated a B overall for profits but its operating margin is rated A- at 64.4% vs. 45.8% for peers. Profitability is not as strong for PVAC, reflecting higher production costs, though we expect higher gas prices to more than offset these in the longer term. If the company delivers on earnings expectations, we think the stock will perform well for investors. The stock did little in 2017, but popped on a positive earnings report on 5/8/18 and could provide further upside from its leverage to higher oil and gas prices. Technically, the stock came out of a long consolidation period with rising oil prices and then a beat on earnings in early May. Healthy volume is driving prices higher with confirming momentum, suggesting further upside is likely. Support is the prior high at $64. Written by: Richard Williams rich@cresscap.com and David Cress david.cress@cresscap.com For additional information, feel free to send questions to info@cresscap.com or view our website www.cresscap.com. Please click here to view CressCap Investment Research’s full disclaimer. 