American Airlines CEO Doug Parker has been busy of late assuring anyone who’d listen that airfares will be going up; indeed that they sooner or later must go up to cover jet fuel prices that are up more than 62% from a year ago. But nobody seems to be listening. Instead of fares rising, they’re actually continuing a now 5-year downward trend. And there does not appear to be any upcoming opportunity to change that trend line, despite the forecast of the CEO of the world's largest airline. Travelers paid, on average $257.88 for their airline tickets in May, down 6.6% from the $276.06 they paid, on average in May 207 according to new data from the U.S. Department of Labor’s seasonally adjusted Consumer Price Index. Worse for the airlines, they’re down a full 20% from a peak of $322.65 in March 2013. So, at least for now, those hopes for higher fare prices are receding at the very time when Parker – and, in all likelihood, the top officials at the other big U.S. airlines – are growing increasingly anxious for opportunities to push through big price increases. Parker and his airline compatriots/competitors say they need price hikes because fuel prices have become uncomfortably high. According to the International Air Transport Associations “Jet Fuel Monitor” North American carriers paid an average of $89.9 a barrel or $214.10 a gallon for the week ended June 8. That’s up 62.2% from one year earlier. But what the airline chieftains don’t say – at least not much, and not very publicly – is that the current run of higher fuel prices has come on top of significant increases in labor and other operating costs over the last couple of years. Labor costs, in particular have skyrocketed. At American the average pay per employee in 2017 was $89,002 in 2017, up 26.3% from 2014, the first full year following the merger with US Airways that brought American out of bankruptcy. No. 2 Delta’s average pay per employee rose 15.4 percent over that same time frame to $99,416. At No. 3 United, the average pay jumped a staggering 33% over the same four-year stretch to $98,980. Even the industry’s leading disruptor, Southwest, which also used to be the industry’s low-cost leader, saw its average pay per employee jump 5.9% to $93,623. And of those four, only United saw an improvement over that same period of time in its employee productivity, measured by the number of available seat miles offered per employee. United offered 2.74 million seat miles per employee in 2017, up 7.5% from 2014. Meanwhile, American, Delta and Southwest, saw their labor productivity decline 7.8%, 2.2% and 5.4%, respectively. The reason? Labor successfully used favorable economics – meaning a string of record or near-record profits during the best financial era in industry history – to negotiate significantly more lucrative pay and benefits deals. Now, however, even though demand remains strong, analysts say that high fuel costs mean the big U.S. carriers will make only half as much money as they did during those record years – and maybe even less than that. The impact of those higher fuel and labor costs is being exacerbated by carriers’ inability to push prices higher as a way of offsetting those higher costs. And a big reason they can’t push through price hikes is that as a group the industry is adding capacity at a faster rate than is justified by the rate of demand growth. And leading the way in that is United. Since former American President and Parker protégé Scott Kirby joined United as President in August 2016 United’s old, slow-growth approach has been replaced by an aggressive growth plan, Kirby believes that United must regain the huge chunk of market share the Chicago-based carrier frittered away over the previous 15 years of financial and managerial turmoil. As he was at American, Kirby is the No. 2 executive at United. But unlike Parker, a veteran industry executive, United CEO Oscar Munoz came to United 11 months before Kirby from the railroad industry. And while he remade United’s senior management to get the moribund carrier moving in a positive direction again, Munoz has chosen to focus on forging and maintaining peace with United’s fractious unions and appears to have given Kirby authority over the airline’s business plan and operations. That’s something Kirby never quite had in his days working with Parker at American and, before that, at US Airways. Yet despite Parker’s public comments about the need to rein in planned capacity growth and to raise fares, comments that clearly doubled as a plea to other industry leaders to follow that course, and despite analysts’ call for airlines to curtail their 2018 growth plans in light of much higher fuel prices, Kirby has barely flinched. He is pushing ahead with plans to add about 5% to United’s capacity this year. All of that, of course, is good news for air travel consumers. So long as United – plus ultra-low cost carriers Spirit, Allegiant and Frontier – keep piling on new capacity the rest of the industry’s ability to raise prices is pretty much nil. And there are no signs – yet – of a let up in those carriers’ growth plans this year. Even Southwest, which last month said it will throttle back a bit on its 2018 capacity growth plan, still plans to see its capacity rise more than 4% this year. Given Southwest’s status as the largest provider of domestic air service, plus its reach into virtually all major domestic travel markets its continued aggressive growth should be enough to keep a cap on average fare prices. No one is saying that those current circumstances will send the U.S. airline industry back into a cycle of deep losses. Indeed, the industry still is expected to earn somewhere in the neighborhood of $14 billion this year. It’s just that those projections have been adjusted down more than 40% from analysts’ profit predictions going into this year. Thus, the good times at America’s big airlines will continue, albeit in a diminished way vis-à-vis the past few years. But so, too, will the good times continue to roll this year for air travelers.