Consumers are paying more to fill up at the pump, and those paying with credit cards may be feeling the biggest squeeze. Gas prices climbed to over $3.39 per gallon in California, and analysts believe they will hit $4 this summer. It's not just the Golden State that's seeing gas prices go up. Average prices throughout the nation are also expected to skyrocket. At the same time, an analysis of credit cards offered by America's largest gas-station chains shows interest rates on these cards are far greater than the national average charged by ordinary credit cards. Credit card interest only becomes a factor if cardholders don't pay their entire balance in full each month. The American Bankers Association estimates that these “revolvers” account for 43.7% of consumers. While virtually all personal finance experts agree that carrying a balance is a poor choice, this adage is doubly true for those holding gas credit cards. With interest rates being upward of 86% greater on these branded cards, consumers who put gas costs on credit can wind up paying hundreds of dollars more in extra charges each year. At a time when gas prices increase, the value of rewards provided by these gas credit cards also decreases, relative to what other rewards cards provide. A standard cash back credit card, not affiliated with any gas station, will provide consumers a flat discount (for example 2% cash back). Therefore, if the price at the pump increases, consumers still get the same 2% discount because it scales with the price. Most gas station credit cards, on the other hand, provide cardholders with a fixed discount on every gallon purchased. The ExxonMobil card, for example, provides 6 cents off every gallon. When the average price of gas is $2.82, that 6-cent discount amounts to 2%. However, should average gas prices hit the $4 mark, consumers would still get just 6 cents off, and their discount would effectively fall to 1.5%. That's well below what top-rated cash back cards could provide. What Can Individuals Do To Combat Rising Gas Prices? The internet has no shortage of advice on how consumers can save money at the pump. If you're interested in doing your own research, we recommend starting with Google. We combed through existing sources and distilled them into a short list. Here are a few good ways to save money, while keeping that high-interest credit card in your pocket: 1. Pay with cash. Many gas stations will add a surcharge for those who pay with credit. Consumer Reports says the difference can amount to 10 to 15 cents per gallon. Gas stations will either post two separate prices (one for cash and one for credit) or a sign that informs you about a surcharge. 2. Use gas station apps. Those who do a lot of driving know that you can see vastly different prices at gas stations the more you drive around. However, driving around aimlessly looking for lower prices costs not only your time, but also more gas. Today, you can use apps like GasBuddy, AAA, Fuel Finder or Gas Guru to find lower prices in your neighborhood. 3. Plan ahead. You should never wait until your tank is near empty to fill up. If you do, you will likely be more desperate to go to any pump and will likely ignore the two tips we mentioned above. It's better to visit a gas station more frequently, and get smaller amounts of gas, than it is to go to the first station you see and pay with whatever you have in your pocket. 4. Buy discounted gas gift cards. Forbes Contributor Catey Hill recommends using sites like GiftCardGranny.com to buy discounted gas station gift cards. People will occasionally get these as presents they don't want, and throw them up for resale online. Make sure to only use reputable sources. You don't want to end up buying stolen or counterfeit gift cards.