Early this morning, President Donald Trump tossed out another tweet targeting OPEC for what he considers to be an unduly-high price of crude oil , saying: This tweet comes almost two months after the President took an initial shot at OPEC over crude prices on his favorite social media account, in which Mr. Trump went into more detail: As I noted a couple of weeks ago, that first tweet from the U.S. President got the attention of OPEC officials, as explained by OPEC Secretary General Mohammad Barkindo: What is so interesting here is that, shortly after that quote and other information indicating that OPEC and Russia are in talks to increase their production in order to rein in rising oil prices appeared in several media reports, the price of crude oil began a steep descent, dropping more than 10 percent since then to its current levels. Very predictably, the price of gasoline, which will always lag behind changes in crude prices, has this week also begun to fall, right in the middle of summer driving season. It has already dropped by more than 3 percent, and we can expect it to fall by even more in the coming week or two. Thus, today's missive from the President comes as a bit of a surprise. If his concern really is about consumer gasoline prices, he is already getting the result he wanted when he tossed out that first tweet in April. It also seems entirely possible that he will see even more action in this regard when OPEC and Russia meet to discuss making adjustments to their export limitation agreement later this month. Of course, at the time of the President's first OPEC-targeted tweet I speculated that it is entirely possible that tweet was really not about gasoline prices at all, but was instead an effort by the President to influence Saudi Arabia or Russia on some tangentially- or un-related matter. This sort of misdirection would be entirely in keeping with Trump's historic use of his Twitter account. In the end, only the President knows what the purpose behind this morning's tweet really is. The one thing we know for sure is that OPEC's oil ministers and Secretary General will read it with great interest. 