Talk between OPEC and Russian officials of unwinding their deal to cut output has cooled overheating oil prices, at least for the moment. International prices, which hit a high of $80 a barrel in May, are now more likely to head back to $50 a barrel rather than continue surging toward the feared $100 level. Oil prices in the United States are at an eight-week low, hovering around $64.50 a barrel on Tuesday for West Texas Intermediate, as U.S. production continued its climb toward 11 million barrels a day. A betting man, though, would still be smart to put money on prices remaining robust given the unsettled fundamentals in the market. There’s too much at stake for Saudi Arabia, the leader of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, to let prices fall too far below $70 in the near-term. President Donald Trump has shown he’s willing to apply pressure on Riyadh when the market gets too hot. It was only after Trump criticized OPEC’s supply cuts that Saudi Arabia began to talk about releasing more oil into the market. The ending or at least the easing of the deal to cut production between OPEC and its allies, which has been in place since January 2017, is expected to be agreed to at the next meeting of the group in Vienna on June 22.    Trump’s fleet thumbs on Twitter has made him a major mover of oil markets. His withdrawal of the United States from the Iran nuclear deal spooked markets, prompting serious supply fears, particularly after the administration vowed to apply the “strongest sanctions in history” on Tehran. But that decision also went over well with Saudi Arabia, which loathes Shiite Iran and fears its hegemonic agenda. By aligning U.S. foreign policy on Iran with Saudi Arabia – which remains the world’s only real swing producer – President Trump has earned political capital with Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman, commonly known as MBD. Trump’s influence with the young crown prince could prove invaluable as Saudi Arabia weighs future oil policy cooperation with its OPEC and non-OPEC partners, including Russia, which is likely less concerned about American interests. Expect oil markets to be in limbo until the exporter group decides how to proceed on its output-cut pledge on June 22. No matter the outcome, it’s hard to see any dramatic changes in oil markets in the second half of the year. Markets are already well supplied. Prices rose on geopolitical fears of future output disruptions, not because of any real shortage of oil. Those fears, stemming largely from the political and economic meltdown in Venezuela and the impact of U.S. sanctions on Iran, remain. Just how much additional oil OPEC and its non-OPEC partners will – or can – put on the market is the real question. The agreement between the exporter group and its allies – 21 countries in all – to cut 1.8 million barrels a day was originally set to expire at the end of 2018. That means it may be cut short by, at most, five months. Compliance with the output cuts has to a large extent occurred because of Venezuela’s involuntary reductions. Venezuela production is now at its lowest point since the 1950s due to the country’s growing economic crisis. Angola’s declining output has also contributed to compliance rates as high as 150%. Because of this, even if OPEC and its allies were to scrap the production deal altogether, you wouldn’t see 1.8 million barrels a day flood the market. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Kuwait have spare capacity that can be brought online quickly, as does Russia with about 300,000 barrels a day in cuts, but otherwise incremental barrels are hard to find. Most participating countries are producing at maximum output already, including Angola, Algeria, Mexico and Kazakhstan. At most, analysts believe the exporter group could add 1.3 million barrels a day to the market. Saudi Arabia has already signaled that production will be increased gradually to avoid market shocks. Operationally, restarting idled wells takes time as well. Russia says it needs at least a month to resume full production. Add a few more weeks for additional output to physically reach the market. For all of President Trump’s concerns about rising gasoline prices in the United States, MBD’s top priority remains the “Vision 2030” economic reform package for his country, the centerpiece of which is the planned public offering of shares in the state oil giant Aramco. MBD needs relatively high oil prices to ensure a robust valuation, if not quite the $2 trillion he initially sought. Saudi Arabia reportedly views an oil price of $75 a barrel as fair for both producers and consumers. President Vladimir Putin has separately said that $60 a barrel would be acceptable to Russia. Prices in this neighborhood might also satisfy major consuming nations like India, which grew increasingly upset as prices hit $80 a barrel. Such a price range also falls within the sweet spot for American shale producers, who have demonstrated that they can continue to increase output even at low prices. While the forward oil curve is in a state of backwardation – meaning that the price of oil on the futures market is lower than its price on the spot market – shale producers have recently added price hedges to their 2019 oil production. U.S. producers had about 16% of their 2019 oil price hedged at $60 a barrel at the end of the first quarter, up from 9% at the end of 2017, according to Goldman Sachs. The fact that producers here are looking for so much downside protection and are willing to leave money on the table to get it, suggests a more mature exploration and production sector that doesn’t need high commodity prices to thrive. Meanwhile, domestic output is expected to continue to grow. The Energy Information Administration projects U.S. crude oil production will average 10.7 million barrels a day this year, up a whopping 1.3 million barrels a day from 2016, and will add between 1.2 million to 11.9 million barrels a day more in 2019. The sector is so strong at the moment that its biggest fear is not how OPEC and Russia manage supply policy, but whether there will be enough domestic pipeline and export capacity to get all that oil to market. Infrastructure constraints are the reason that American oil trades at a $9 a barrel discount on the West Texas Intermediate (WTI) benchmark compared to the international benchmark. The fact that American oil is being sold at a discount has prompted a surge of interest from large importing economies like China and India. Trump has been a strong supporter of the domestic oil and gas sector, but he could – and should – go further. He could start with dropping his 25% tariffs on imported steel, which accounts for as much as 20% of the overall cost of developing an oil field and wreaks havoc on the economics of pipeline construction, not to mention ports. If the last few weeks have shown us anything, it is that volatility in the oil market is here to stay. The best way to insulate American consumers from price shocks is to ensure the continued growth of America’s own oil sector and the infrastructure required to support it.   