This past Friday, the Dakota Access Pipeline quietly celebrated its first anniversary of service. More commonly known as "DAPL", what was once a national flashpoint between law enforcement and fossil fuel opponents has been largely forgotten. Perhaps some have wondered, what has happened with that pipeline in its inaugural year? (Disclosure: I previously served as an advisor for the Midwest Alliance For Infrastructure Now, an industry group that advocated for the pipeline.) DAPL has been quietly transferring crude oil from the Bakken fields in North Dakota at a rate of over 500,000 barrels per day. That has helped bolster North Dakota’s daily production numbers. According to the North Dakota’s Department of Mineral Resources, North Dakota production hit 1.16 million barrels per day in March, thanks in large to part to DAPL. While North Dakota still ranks behind Texas and Gulf of Mexico production, North Dakota’s production has helped strengthen domestic energy independence, with the pipeline already transporting roughly 182.5 million barrels of oil. The Dakota Access Pipeline’s safety record to date is quite impressive—the pipeline has been entirely free from significant incidents. While several minor leaks have been recorded, they were each quickly contained at the source and amounted to mere gallons, rather than barrels of volume escaping. According to available data, the pipeline lost less than 4 barrels of oil during its first six months in operation versus roughly 61.25 million barrels transported during the same period of time. Energy Transfer Partners, the company that had the pipeline built, says that it intentionally overbuilt the line, often going above and beyond federal safety regulations. The company installed pipe that is 50 percent thicker than required by law in sensitive places and used x-ray and ultrasonic technology to field test every single weld. Additionally, the company used innovative technology to insert the line between 95 and 115 feet below the Missouri river crossing at Lake Oahe to further protect drinking water. Even with DAPL’s track record, opponents continue to claim that pipelines present significant risks to public health. This despite data from the federal government, which continues to show that pipelines are extremely safe. According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, the federal agency responsible for oversight safety of the nation’s 2.6 million miles of lines, pipelines remain the safest way to transport large volumes of energy products. That margin of safety is important as the oil being produced will get to market. Without new pipelines like DAPL, oil will be forced onto rail cars, trucks, and even barges which would undermine environmental safety given recent news from the U.S. Department of Energy that America continues to producer more oil and gas than any other nation. The Energy Department’s Energy Information Agency says that since 2008, “U.S. petroleum and natural gas production has increased by nearly 60 percent.” The agency says that “production is expected to increase, reaching 17.6 million b/d in 2018 and 19.1 million b/d in 2019, up from 15.6 million b/d in 2017.” Continuing domestic production requires supporting infrastructure, and when it comes to safety, efficiency, and cost, pipelines will remain the preferred choice of transportation for decades to come, or until the country no longer needs oil and gas products to support the economy. Despite advances in renewables, all major scientific and research institutions expect the U.S. to remain largely dependent on fossil fuel for decades. With no letup in sight, the U.S. is also positioned to remain the world’s largest producer of oil and gas, and with a century of experience, pipelines will continue to be required. The Dakota Access Pipeline has much to celebrate on its first year in service. For proponents, it shows once again that oil can be safely transported in significant volumes. It also shows that the project created nearly 10,000 jobs during construction, which pumped millions of dollars into local economies. Landowners received $189 million in easement payments last year, while state and local governments received a combined $55 million in property taxes. Supporters view DAPL as a modern success story. For opponents, it is a stark reminder that we live in a word that is dependent upon fossil fuels. Lowering emissions and reducing spills is a worthy goal; opposing every form of energy infrastructure is not. Given that reality, we should all be working together to ensure that all pipelines are operated safely while we look for ways to reduce our carbon footprint. Brigham McCown is a former federal government safety regulator and the founder of the non-profit Aii.org. You can visit him at brighammccown.com or follow him on Twitter.