The mood in the U.S. oil capital of Houston, Texas appears pretty bullish, not necessarily about the direction of crude prices but rather about the industry's own prospects for the next five years. A palpable local sentiment points to American ingenuity. It brought about the now firmly established 'shale revolution' and has not only helped weather the downturn but brought about process efficiencies of the sort unheard of before. Having spent a week in the epicenter of America's oil and gas industry last month, your correspondent had a dozen independents claim they had cut drilling times down by "at least" a half if not two-thirds compared to 2014. Legal firms in Downtown Houston and Dallas point to a constant uptick in drilling permit applications, and survey after survey by Baker Hughes keeps pointing to a rise in the U.S. rig count. The latest count published on June 1, 2018 put the number of U.S. oil at 861 rigs, up 128 on the same week last year. Both the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), as well as the International Energy Agency (IEA), concur that American production could exceed that of Saudi Arabia and Russia in 2018, and come in well above 10 million barrels per day (bpd). What's more, while the oil market remains volatile, futures benchmarks have continued to oscillate within a very predictable $60-80 per barrel range, allowing companies to focus on firming up their finances.    Yet situational contentment will not give rise to complacency, according to James O'Brien, Chair of international law firm Baker McKenzie's Global Energy, Mining & Infrastructure Industry Group. Speaking on the sidelines of firm's recently concluded 2018 Oil & Gas Institute, O'Brien opined the industry appears to be "more efficient" with crude prices in the current range than it ever did in the era of $100 per barrel oil prices. Furthermore, despite recent market chatter of a return to $100 oil prices and outlandish claims of $300 by one particular fund manager; U.S. exploration and production (E&P) companies are keeping their feet firmly on the ground and actually aspiring for a $30 break-even. "From oil majors to oil patch independents, we get a sense that people are feeling pretty good. There is optimism in the business – not only about the oil price – but about productivity gains, cost optimization and strategic investment in what can be described as a favorable regulatory climate. "Neither is Baker McKenzie expecting a $100 oil price anytime soon, nor are our clients waiting around for one. In fact, E&P companies are continuing to innovate to push down costs, and the oilfield services companies are looking to manage lower time and cost expectations for their clients. This is leading to the creation of new production margin equations, something that's great for the business." The industry also appears to be better prepared for a slump. Anecdotal evidence in Houston suggests some, if not all players, can even manage at $35-40 per barrel. "The so-called fixed break-even number below which the U.S. industry as a whole would be in trouble no longer exists. Over the last two years, American E&P companies have learnt to operate and manage their corporate pain threshold at [different and relatively lower] levels we have not seen before," O'Brien concluded. And the feel good factor the shale guys convey, appears to be spreading across the board. According to research and analytics outfit GlobalData, around $142 billion in capital expenditure (capex) will be allocated to nearly 100 upcoming North American conventional and offshore oil and gas fields between 2018 and 2025, with U.S. projects accounting for 53% or $76 billion of that spending. Among these, the top fields in terms of capex for the period are Mad Dog Phase 2 (Gulf of Mexico) with $13.4 billion, Smith Bay (Alaska) with $11.1 billion and Horseshoe (Alaska) with $6.5 billion. As for shale, Bjarne Schieldrop, Chief Commodities Analyst at Nordic Bank SEB, notes what is unfolding stateside is nothing short of dramatic. "The number of shale oil wells completed in April is now 40% above the average 2014 level in real terms, and both drilling and completions of wells are on a rising path. U.S. shale oil production is now growing at a marginal annualized growth rate of 1.6 million bpd," Schieldrop said. The Permian basin alone accounts for 60% of this growth. "While there might be a lack in pipeline capacity, there is no lack of oil resources in the ground, in capital or in rigs and completions." International attention isn't lacking either, according to global consultancy EY. It recently ranked the U.S. as the top destination for oil and gas investors, well ahead of Brazil and Canada, which came second and third. EY's survey of industry executives also named portfolio transformation as a "top priority" among the executives polled, a popular phrase in American energy industry circles. Taking all factors into account, it is unsurprising then that IEA's outspoken Executive Director Dr Fatih Birol has repeatedly said that U.S. explorers should "enjoy" their new found status in the global oil and gas industry, which they are on course to dominate for the next five years. Enjoying the moment they most certainly are, but letting their efficiencies guard down doesn't appear to be on the table. 