It speaks to the short-term views of the oil market that when prices fall, many analysts pronounce OPEC dead, and when they rise, it is declared reborn. The truth, as I remarked in an earlier column, is that the organization is primarily active (and successful) when markets weaken, and it becomes possible to get members to agree to reduce production to stabilize and/or raise prices. The reality is that trying to achieve a price target is like trying to hit a deer with a bow and arrow from horseback—firing over your shoulder behind you, with a patch covering one eye. Data on oil consumption, production, and inventories are not just badly lagged, but incomplete. The “miscellaneous to balance,” in the IEA’s Oil Market Report, which represents the inaccuracy of the data, often approaches 1 mb/d for a given quarter, reflecting shortcomings in the data availability. And that’s in the historical data; the future is even less certain. There is one useful indicator: prices. The Nymex has performed a datamining function long before the current fashionable use of the term, rather as Moliere’s Bourgeouis Gentilhomme was speaking prose without knowing it. The price on the Nymex and similar markets reflects the intersection of the knowledge of thousands upon thousands of market participants, as well as their judgment, and recent movements certainly confirm the idea that the market has tightened since the Vienna Agreement to restrain production in late 2016, moving from contango to backwardation recently. The Vienna Agreement was notable for several reasons: first, it included the major non-OPEC producers of Mexico and Russia, as well as Iraq, which some worried would refuse to participate. Second, compliance has been not only pretty good, but lasting far beyond what most expected. And third, it did indeed reduce supply so as to contribute to the inventory drawdown that has left the market more or less in balance. The standard interpretation of the market development since the Vienna Agreement is somewhat lacking in a number of respects. Although the recent focus has been on the lower production from Mexico and Venezuela, early on the prominent factor was the increase in production from Iran, Libya and Nigeria, each of which was given permission to do so because of extenuating circumstances. Further, the (unanticipated) boom in demand has been significant enough to offset much of the increased production mentioned above. As many have noted, much of the reduction in supply, especially in recent months, has been due to production problems in Venezuela stemming from the ongoing economic meltdown. That country pledged a reduction of 100 tb/d, but recently was 650 tb/d below its supply baseline. Overall, Venezuela accounts for 10% or 125 million barrels of the total supply curtailment. Mexico is also producing less than allowed, and accounted for 71 million barrels of the total reduction (net cutback, 902 million barrels, including a 28 mb offset by Kazakhi overproduction). What is often forgotten is that when the Vienna Agreement was made, Iran, Libya and Nigeria were not included and indeed, began to increase production almost immediately, offsetting much of the reduction others were making. Similarly, the release of Iran from sanctions saw an increase of nearly 500 tb/d in the months after the Vienna Agreement. (See figure) The cumulative increase from those three since January 2017 to now has been about 400 million barrels, offsetting more than a third of the reductions made by other participants in the VA, and about twice the losses from Mexico and Venezuela. (Of course, Mexico and Venezuela were supposed to reduce production under the agreement, so about half of the loss would be ‘voluntary’ in theory.) OECD demand has also been very robust of late. The next figure shows the economic growth, year-on-year, by quarter, and the past year, especially the last two quarters, were well above the norm and well above what was expected. The IEA had initially predicted a growth in OECD demand of 100 tb/d for 2017, later revising that to a decline of -0.1 mb/d, but latest estimates are that growth was actually 500 tb/d. Including early 2018, it can be argued that OECD demand has been roughly 350 million barrels above expectations over 15 months. Interestingly, the timing of the gains and losses explain a lot about why the impact of the Vienna Agreement was so delayed: production increases occurred within the first six months after the agreement, while the losses have been most significant in the past few months. At the same time, the demand surge was small in the first half of 2017 and greatest more recently. In the table below, I have roughly quantified the different figures described here and it suggests that, while the Vienna Agreement was the biggest factor in reducing the inventory glut, but the boom in demand in the OECD (non-OECD data are less reliable) played a secondary role. (Recent reports suggested China increased its strategic stocks by 130 million barrels, not a trivial amount either.) So, while the drop in Mexican and especially Venezuelan production was important in recent months, overall it has been less significant. What this says about prices going out is significant. The prospects for more production increases from Iran, Libya and Nigeria are poor, while almost certainly Venezuelan production will continue to decline rapidly and perhaps cease, and Mexico could decline more. The U.S. unilateral sanctions against Iran might reduce their sales, at least briefly, later this summer. At the same time, there are warning signs of slower economic growth in the U.S. and Europe, including low unemployment, a slight quickening of inflation, and rising interest rates. But that is more likely to happen later than soon. Overall, then, the oil market in the next six months or so promises to be tight unless Russia and Saudi Arabia agree to raise production. But how much is needed, and whether a negotiated increase will open the taps in other countries (which are admittedly small), is not yet clear.