The economy is booming, unemployment continues to fall, and global equities are at record highs. But there are signs that we’re headed for a shift that will impact commercial real estate, and business in general. So what is the best strategy for these uncertain times? We continue to believe that investors should always be on the lookout for opportunities that allow them to add significant value. It’s a strategy that’s allowed our company to prosper in good times and in challenging times. Follow The Cycle In the current real estate market, returns are very low and prices and risk are high. In my experience, a property purchased today will yield, on average, a 5.5% return on your money, but your true take-home profit may be much lower after taxes and inflation. In fact, your profit could be close to zero depending on the level of the asset risk. Construction costs are high, cap rates are compressed, and investors are spooked and looking for safe places to park their money with some level of return. So how did we get here? Since the Great Depression, recessions have run in seven- to 12-year cycles. If financial history repeats itself -- and we believe it does -- we are now in year 10 of the current cycle. Several analysts and economists believe we’re headed for another recession within the next year or two and we are inclined to agree. The economy shows signs of overheating (as was the case right before the 2008 Great Recession), oil prices are rising, and the Fed seems intent on continued interest rate hikes. Many big banks and developers that bought real estate in the wake of the last recession have been enjoying handsome profits because they exited at the right time -- they understood that real estate prices could not go up forever and that what goes up must come down. It’s a lesson that we constantly seem to forget. Currently, many new condominiums, homes, and apartments are still in under construction and scheduled to be delivered within the next 18 months, in a market that already has an oversupply of product for rent and for sale at very high prices. Ultimately, prices will need to come down. The challenge for investors is where to find value. Add Value One possible strategy in these strange times is very simple for both real estate and business in general: add value. At our company, we look for under-performing assets that lack sophisticated management and marketing and that need cash and improvements. We make those improvements, and then re-position the asset or the business in the marketplace, where it can command higher rent. During the last recession, for example, we bought two million square feet of real estate at $0.20 on the dollar and have made more than 200% profit in the past five years. This type of strategy has played well in recessionary times and in high-value markets like the one we are in today. The best part is that you can exit the asset once the add value process is done and have cash in your pocket so that you’re prepared to snap up the next bargain. Or you can just maintain the asset for the longer run. Even if the asset’s value comes down with the next couple of years, chances are you will still be able to double your profits on a longer term hold. We are always conservative with our projection but, as one of my mentors taught me, whether or not you make a profit is determined not at the time you sell but at the time you buy. Investors should be prepared for what’s coming down the road. As the Federal Reserve continues to push interest rates up in 2018 and 2019, cap rates will go higher and the price of real estate will decrease. That’s the time to go shopping. For us, the lesson is a bit like a game of musical chairs: You have to listen carefully for when the music is about to stop, and be prepared to claim your chair. 