The Issue Unfortunately, the infrastructure build-out needed to support our shale oil and natural gas boom has faced pushback. The latest tangle that I have been following is in Minnesota, where the "Canadian multinational energy transportation company" Enbridge's Line 3 replacement project faces a lengthy delay if regulators deny the firm's preferred pipeline route through the state. Line 3 is a 1,097-mile pipeline that runs crude oil from the province of Alberta in western Canada to Wisconsin. In service for 50 years now, Line 3 has been operating at just half of its capacity due to integrity concerns, and a replacement would allow the artery to return to shipping a full 760,000 barrels per day. Bottlenecks in Alberta have plunged the price of its heavier crude versus other grades, so producers in the region can't realize fair gains on their oil production due to insufficient pipeline capacity. The Minnesota Public Utilities Commission is expected to determine the fate of Line 3 later this month, deciding if the $7 billion project is needed and what route it would have to take. Enbridge prefers a new route that bypasses an indigenous reservation and ecologically sensitive areas, while also helping to avoid supply disruptions. The company wants to start construction in Minnesota in November, but a forced alternative route would require more analysis that would set back plans for Line 3 to start by late-2019. In contrast, an Enbridge victory would help Canadian oil shippers and northern U.S. refiners. Line 3 means a $2.5 billion investment in Minnesota, more jobs, more energy security, and less crude transported by rail (the more costly and less safe option to ship oil, still easily our most vital source of energy).    I don't want to make this post too long, but also know that not just Line 3, Enbridge has also faced a fight and a thousand hoops in its Line 5 replacement project in Michigan, where company and state are in agreement on laying out a new path. Enbridge is expected to release a report on Line 5 tomorrow, hoping to replace it with a new pipeline in the Straits of Mackinac surrounded by tunnels. Approvals for Enbridge's replacement projects would support our need for more infrastructure to enhance our place as the world's most important oil and gas producer, able to even buffer the influence of OPEC and Russia - a clear victory for American businesses, families, and environment. More Pipelines Required Pipelines are essential to delivering the energy that Americans need every day. They are easily the safest and most economical way to move oil and gas around the country and are monitored daily by state-of-the-art technologies that safeguard our society. There are a few critical things to understand about Enbridge Line 3 replacement in particular: Like roads and bridges, pipelines are part of the basic infrastructure needed for U.S. communities to thrive. More oil links are crucial across the nation and even across the continent to create an energy security bloc for Canada, the U.S., and Mexico. In a world where China and Russia are collaborating on oil and gas deals and Iran seeks to supply booming India, we must enhance our own energy security with the infrastructure that we need. Connections to Canadian energy firms like Enbridge are especially important: "Canada is North America's Great Oil Security Blanket." As our transport system ages, more pipelines need to be replaced to ensure the integrity of the system and protect the environment. The reality: "Saying ‘No’ to a pipeline is saying ‘Yes’ to rail,” which will “increase the risk to the environment and human health and not decrease it.” It’s only fair that “non-oil and -gas producing but oil and gas consuming” states like Minnesota and Michigan do their part to help the nation as a whole: oil and gas supply 65% of the energy that allows our $20 trillion economy to function. Not building pipelines will ultimately mean exactly what it has meant elsewhere: higher prices for families and businesses. Not to mention that New England's lack of pipelines, for instance, forced it to import natural gas via LNG this past winter from Russia, despite sanctions on the project from which it came. I implore Minnesota, Michigan, and the rest of the west and east north central regions not to follow the higher cost, less energy secure model that New England and New York have unwisely installed - a self-imposed energy crisis. Commitment to Safety, Environment Extracting and transporting oil and gas is about as challenging an endeavor as there is, which is why majoring in petroleum engineering is the highest paying. As noted by the Congressional Research Service, "with such widespread use and nonstop movement, it is inevitable that some number of spills will occur," but safety is a core value in the oil and gas business that is required for competitive success. There's no choice for it not to be. Every day, industry must contend with an array of health, safety, and environmental concerns that surround an increasingly complex and globalizing business environment. In the face of more regulatory oversight, as well as increased public scrutiny, producers know that effective safety management systems help protect the workers, general public, and environment. Too often, our national discussion on extracting and moving oil and gas focuses on fear, not facts. Case in point: "Study finds no evidence of groundwater contamination from fracking." It's hard work, but oil and gas companies have a clear vested interest in being as safe as possible. In addition to expensive lost product and damaged reputation, it costs about $250 to clean up a single gallon of crude oil. The 2010 BP Deepwater Horizon spill has cost the company more than $65 billion. As for impact on the environment, our policymakers must know that pipelines are less intrusive than the wind and solar farms (especially offshore wind) that are promoted by environmental groups, despite being hugely expansive and needing great swaths of land. This explains why siting wind and solar projects has been so contentious, even among environmental groups themselves: "Efforts to reduce wind energy impact to wildlife prompts controversy." In Minnesota: "Judge's ruling against Minnesota wind farm causes alarm for advocates." Even in the most green-tinted state where federal environmental permits had already been granted: "California solar project shot down." Source, latest Annual Reports: Enbridge; Greenpeace (note: results are from a "find" on my iMac Pro) Jobs, Economic Benefits America's shale oil and natural gas boom has been a boon (aka "the shale gale"). Abundant domestic energy has created jobs, spurred a manufacturing renaissance, enhanced national security, reduced household and business energy costs, and even driven environmental progress — with U.S. carbon emissions plunging to 25-year lows thanks to greater use of clean natural gas. Americans: "Support Your Local Oil and Natural Gas Company." Policies to encourage growth in the oil and gas sector are critical, or else we will dangerously gift the market to OPEC and Russia. Not to mention that policies like tariffs and quotas are already putting external price pressure even if projects do get approval. IHS Global projects 1.9 million new jobs for our country in the oil and gas business by 2035. Enbridge's line replacement projects exemplify the tremendous benefits that we must realize. Line 3 would: 