With U.S. production growth for oil and natural gas out-pacing refining capacity and domestic demand, respectively, the United States is on a path to assume a position among the largest global exporters of both commodities over the next few years. These are among the findings of a new report previewed this week by DrillingInfo, a Texas-based provider of oilfield data and services. The report's authors note that, because of a growing mis-match of domestic production growth to U.S. refining capacity, incremental production volumes of oil will essentially all be exported through the year 2025 and beyond. Virtually all incremental U.S. production during that time frame will be in the form of light, sweet crude from shale plays like the Permian Basin, the Bakken Shale and the Eagle Ford Shale, a mis-match for domestic refineries set up largely to refine heavier grades of crude coming in from Canada and other exporting countries. As of February 2018, the United States ranked as the 7th largest crude exporting country , shipping about 1.6 million barrels of oil per day (bopd). DrillingInfo projects that export volume will double to 3.36 mmbopd by 2020, and grow by another 45% to 4.84 mmbopd by 2025. That volume of exports would rank the U.S. third among current exporting countries, behind only Saudi Arabia and Russia. DrillingInfo anticipates that the majority of those incremental exports will move out from the burgeoning Port of Corpus Christi, which currently handles more than half of the country's crude exports. This is largely due to the Port's proximity to the Eagle Ford Shale and Permian Basin, which are currently providing most of the country's production growth. This obviously anticipates that the long-awaited project for the Army Corps of Engineers to deepen the Port's main channel will ultimately be fully funded and move forward. While congress has been negligent in allocating such funds, the Port itself approved a plan earlier this year to take on debt for the first time in its history in order to get that project kick-started. So, the Port is intent on gaining this market share, and its advantageous location and comparatively low traffic level gives it an edge over other major Gulf Coast ports. The DrillingInfo report also notes that the U.S. became a next exporter of natural gas for the first time in February, 2017. That was the point at which the country's exports via either pipeline into Mexico and Canada or on LNG tankers moving out of Cheniere Energy's Sabine Pass facility exceeded volumes coming into the U.S. from Canada. The U.S. currently exports over 6 billion cubic feet per day (bcfd) of natural gas, about 1 bcfd more than it imports from its northern neighbor. By 2022, DrillingInfo notes that the U.S. EIA projects that net export surplus to grow to a much as 8 bcfd, and total U.S. export volumes to exceed 13 bcfd. The vast majority of this growth in exports is projected to come from the opening of a raft of new LNG export facilities that are scheduled to come online between now and 2025. Four such new facilities are in the queue to open in 2019, with at least another seven to follow in the years after that. This ramping up of LNG capacity is a blessing for U.S. natural gas producers, as well as those drilling mainly for crude oil in the various shale basins around the country. Wells that are technically "oil" wells in the Permian, Bakken, Eagle Ford and other shale plays typically contain large volumes of associated natural gas, a subject my Forbes colleague Jude Clemente covered at length recently. The Permian Basin, in fact, has in recent years risen to become the nation's second-biggest natural gas producing basin - behind only the Marcellus Shale region - despite often not having a single active rig drilling wells that would be classified as a "natural gas well" by the Texas Railroad Commission. U.S. demand for natural gas has risen significantly over the last several years thanks to growing use in the power generation sector and the recent recovery in U.S. manufacturing industries that use natural gas as a feedstock. But the overall demand growth has been well-exceeded by domestic production growth in these prodigious shale plays, making the the ramping-up of LNG capacity one of the main drivers of the industry's continued health. The DrillingInfo report also details the recent development of infrastructure to facilitate the growth in demand for U.S. ethane exports in recent years, which is another development no one saw coming as recently as 5 years ago. Overall, the report paints a picture of how a nation that just a decade ago was extremely dependent on energy imports from other, often hostile nations has already grown into a significant exporter of these same products and will, over the next 7 years, become one of the world's major exporting powers. It's an amazing transformation that pretty much no one saw coming.