One key oil story this week has been the Trump administration "asking" Saudi Arabia and Russia to increase production by 1 million b/d, or over half of the 1.8 million b/d the OPEC-led production cut agreement has kept off the market since January 2017. Given a variety of factors like the ongoing collapse in Venezuela, potential new U.S. sanctions on Iran, and other geopolitical premiums, the market now has a shortfall of around 1 million b/d that must be filled : "Sam Zell: Every Recession Since 1973 Has Been Due to Oil Prices." Both Saudi Arabia and Russia have indicated the willingness and capacity to grow production, but the others in the reduction deal that can't up output would actually lose revenues if production went up and prices fell. Although OPEC's spare capacity is down by 50% in recent years, the bloc surely doesn't appear to be the "toothless tiger" Harold Hamm claimed it to be a few years ago. I'm not sure how a group of producers that own 72% of proven global reserves and account for 43% of all production could be described as so insignificant, but hey who am I to contradict such a rich oilman. In fact, even the articulated possibility of OPEC production increasing output is what has pulled global oil prices back in recent weeks. OPEC and Russian officials meet again June 22 to discuss next steps, and the talks "might be one of the worst since 2011." As for mighty Russia, Vladimir Putin calls the current situation "unacceptable" and says his country is good with $60 oil: "How Will An Increase In Oil Output By OPEC And Russia Impact Oil Prices?" Namely, Putin rightly warns that higher crude prices hurt consumers, which would be exacerbated by: "Global growth is set to ebb: World Bank." Booming oil demand in China though will remain one of the strongest bullish factors in the market. In 2017, China soared past the U.S. to become the largest crude importer, taking in ~8.5 million b/d, or 8-10% above U.S. levels. China, of course, has been wisely stockpiling since prices crashed in 2014 in building its Strategic Petroleum Reserve to guard against supply disruptions. "Trade tensions could boost pace of China's strategic crude storage." Looking forward, China's new oil demand will be "immense but not unlimited." Oil accounts for just 18% of the country's energy supply, compared to a whopping 36% in the developed OECD nations. China's GDP will double to over $20 trillion by 2030, offering more Chinese the resources to purchase their first automobile. Today, the U.S. has over 900 cars for every 1,000 people, China has just 150. While China does account for 40% of the world's 3.1 million electric vehicles, total oil car sales in the country last year alone were a mind-boggling 28 million units - or almost what France has total! One great advantage that the shale industry has brought to the U.S. oil production portfolio is short lead times that can quickly mean higher output when prices rise. Case in point: from January 1 to May 24 of this year, our domestic WTI oil prices went up 17%, and wouldn't you know it, U.S. crude production also went up 13%. The industry's ability to respond to price movements has many discussing the U.S. as the global swing crude supplier. Yet to be sure, our shale oil production is overwhelming pipeline takeaway capacity. For example, bottlenecks in our largest oil field, the Permian shale play in west Texas, have materialized in recent weeks to push prices down. So here in the U.S., growing production and pipeline constraints have merged to lower WTI; while globally, rising demand, the OPEC-led production cuts, and geopolitical problems have kept prices for the international crude benchmarks such as North Sea Brent higher. The end result has been that in recent weeks the WTI-Brent crude spread has ballooned to levels not seen since 2015 . In turn, U.S. crude exports, which really started in 2016, have been increasing with buyers encouraged to get our lower cost WTI. Moreover, the U.S. refinery system is generally configured to process heavier crudes, so as we produce more, we have loads of light, sweet WTI available to ship abroad. Asia is calling us: Saudi Aramco just upped its prices for sale in Asia "amid growing worry about supplies from Venezuela and Iran." Generally, U.S. crude exports should follow the same direction as the WTI-Brent spread, but our ports' ability to take in large export ships is limited. Efforts to expand Corpus Christi and Houston ports to handle Very Large Crude Carriers could eventually add 1.5 million b/d of export capacity. U.S. crude exports though ultimately limit themselves: the more we export, the more the WTI-Brent gap can tighten. EIA has been very consistent with the spread expected at ~$5 next year. Although EIA forecasts indicate no, the Permian slowdown could materialize in the production stats by early-2019. But still, problems are widely expected to be mostly rectified by the end of 2019. Make no mistake though: "Midstream experts agree takeaway bottlenecks will be costly," and constraints on gas pipelines and limits to flaring could also lead to oil wells being shut-in.