The top U.S. airlines in terms of market share as of January 2018 are American, with 18.3% of the domestic market, with Southwest (18.2%), Delta (16.8%) and United (14.9%) close behind. Jet Blue trailed the Big 4, with 5.5% of the market, followed by Alaska with 4.8%. However, the data does not seem to include Virgin America, which began merging with Alaska in 2016. When Alaska’s market share is combined with Virgin’s 1.1% share, other sources rank the Alaska/Virgin combination as the 5th largest airline, ahead of Jet Blue. But even if the combined Alaska/Virgin entity controls 6% of the market, it has a long way to grow to compete with the top four players. (Full disclosure: I own stock in Southwest Airlines and Jet Blue.) While Alaska Airlines was ranked the leader among US airlines again in terms of service, a number of indicators suggest that the merger may still be a work in progress. (The fact that Alaska lost my checked bag on a recent 1st Class former Virgin flight from Newark to Los Angeles, did not retrieve it for two days, then woke up my entire household by delivering the bag at 4:57AM may be such an indicator.)    Alaska announced its acquisition of quirky, yet innovative Virgin America, founded by Richard Branson in 2004, in December 2016. The purchase price was $2.6 billion. Virgin continued to operate its own flights until April 24 of this year. That’s when Virgin’s Flight 1947 made its last take-off from Los Angeles, on a 9:35PM flight to its former home base of San Francisco. Many pieces were written about the end of the innovative Virgin experience, including this letter from founder Branson on how “there is a point at which we have to let go.” But in reality, although the two airlines have finally merged their passenger-service systems and gone to one logo at airports, the Virgin experience is still in place on many Alaska aircraft. They are still painted in Virgin America colors, still equipped with Virgin America literature and equipment and still crewed by flight crew in Virgin America uniforms. A flight attendant on a recent “Alaska” flight told me it would take another year for Virgin crews trained on the Airbus A321 to be certified on Boeing aircraft in Alaska’s existing fleet, and vice-versa. Alaska puts a happy face on this “journey.” The airline noted in May that “We have successfully moved to one reservation system...[and] we now have one airport brand, website, mobile app and call center. All of this work means our merger is now 75 percent complete.” Nonetheless, the airline notes that it is “expected to take until the end of 2019 for the completion of a single brand experience on all Alaska aircraft.” Integration has proved challenging in other ways as well. This year, most airlines have seen their stocks lose altitude, primarily for rising fuel prices as well as concerns about safety and aircraft buying sprees leading to overcapacity. Over the last 52 weeks, United stock dropped 8.47%, American lost 12.15% and Southwest lost 14.26%, while Delta gained 3.55%. But Alaska stock has lost -30.09 % over the last year, the biggest loser among the top five US airlines. (All numbers based on end-of-day stock prices on June 11, 2018.) One growth challenge may be from Alaska’s geographic focus. Alaska’s top hubs for flights include LAX, SeaTac, SFO (also a key hub for Virgin), Portland and Anchorage—all West Coast cities. But more than 58% of the US population still lives east of the Mississippi River. And while LAX with 84 million passengers is certainly a major hub, the other Alaska hubs pale in comparison to the traffic centers of the major airlines. Atlanta, Delta’s stronghold, is the world’s busiest airport, flying more than 104 million passengers a year. Chicago’s O’Hare is a United/American duopoly that handles 80 million passengers a year. American Airlines hub DFW boasts 67 million passengers. And at Newark Airport, Alaska Airlines and Virgin together accounted for about 1.25 million passengers in 2017, which would make the combined entity the sixth largest carrier at EWR. But the leader at Newark, United, accounted for more than twenty times this total, flying 28 million US and international passengers. Even at hubs where Alaska is strong, the combined company has a way to grow. Alaska ranks fifth at Los Angeles International Airport, despite strong service up and down the West Coast and to Mexican destinations. And while Alaska is now the second largest carrier in San Francisco, the number one player, United, accounts for more than 40,000 seats a day at SFO, almost four times as many as Alaska. The airline recently acknowledged its West Coast focus by announcing it would close its New York pilot base by September, asking more than 100 pilots to relocate to either Los Angeles or San Francisco. Alaska also announced it would fly 13 flights a day out of Paine Field in Everett, WA, creating a secondary airport to the increasingly crowded SeaTac. Paine Field, which currently does not have commercial service, is primarily known as the final assembly area for Boeing’s big commercial jets. But the FAA announced it wants to take another look at the environment impact of the new flights, which could delay Alaska service scheduled for fall. Even if it’s been a bumpy flight so far, many believe that it’s only a matter of time before the merger pays off for Alaska shareholders. A Seeking Alpha article titled “Alaska Airlines: Catalysts Start Now” acknowledges issues like Alaska's adjusted EPS of only $0.14 in Q1, down from $1.05 in 2017 and $1.45 in 2016. Capacity also grew faster than revenue passenger miles, resulting in a lower load factor. But although the Seeking Alpha analysts calls the integration period so far “disastrous,” they believe that the benefits of merger synergy will be finally realized in 2018 and 2019. “Only $36 million of the merger synergies were captured in 2017 leaving the majority of the $300 million of synergies for after the transition.” Should oil prices remain stable, the analyst believes that Alaska will put more passengers into the expanded number of seats, while the synergies finally start boosting profits. What we probably won’t see: a merger with another smaller player, such as Jet Blue or Frontier, especially after Alaska’s issues digesting Virgin America. With 68% of the US market still dominated by the Big Four, Alaska’s challenge will be to prove that bigger doesn’t necessarily mean better—or more profitable. 