Home Depot (NYSE: HD) has stated its intention of investing roughly $1.2 billion into its supply chain over the next five years. Given the changing retail landscape, the company believes “a great customer experience depends on great supply chain capability.” Over the past decade, the company has made big strides in its upstream supply chain – moving product to the stores and direct fulfillment centers (DFCs) – and more recently, it has undertaken significant expenditure to build its downstream supply chain – delivering to customers directly. However, the home improvement giant feels there is still some way to go to fully leverage its upstream network, as well as build the fastest and most efficient delivery system. We have a $212 price estimate for Home Depot, which is higher than the current market price. The charts have been made using our new, interactive model. If you don’t agree with our analysis, you can click here for our interactive dashboard to modify our driver assumptions to see what impact it will have on the company’s revenues, earnings, and price estimate. Meaningful Achievements So Far In terms of its upstream network, Home Depot has made a meaningful improvement in devising an optimal flow network with its RDCs (Rapid Deployment Centers), improving its inventory management capabilities, and driving further efficiency through the Supply Chain Sync initiative. For an enhanced direct-to-consumer supply chain, HD has introduced a number of interconnected customer offerings like Buy Online, Ship To Store, and Buy Online, Deliver From Store. The home improvement retailer has also built a network of DFCs, which gives them the capacity to reach 95% of the U.S. population in 2 days or less, and 30% in one day. Moreover, for the professional segment, the company has introduced 2- and 4-hour windows for deliveries. Potential For Improvement Home Depot feels its downstream network consists of four unconnected and independent components – store-based delivery, online delivery from DFCs and vendors, appliance delivery, and Interline brands delivery – which may not be the most ideal situation. Moreover, the current process of packing and shipping from the store leaves room for improvement. Another area that could be upgraded is the speed of delivery from DFCs in cases where the time taken to reach customers is over a day. Keeping all this in mind, the company is taking the following steps: By undertaking this investment, HD aims to create the “fastest and most efficient delivery in home improvement.” Given the enormous scale and scope of this initiative, the company has given itself a period of five years to complete the actions. Such efforts come at a time when Home Depot is grappling with high transportation costs, as a result of the increase in oil prices. In the first quarter, HD faced transportation headwinds which had an eight basis points negative impact on the gross margins. With the increasing shift toward the online space, as well as the addition of features such as same-day delivery, transportation costs may continue to be a hindrance this financial year. However, the overhauling of its supply chain may be a step toward overcoming such headwinds.