American Airlines CEO Doug Parker has a message for his counterparts at other U.S. airlines, especially those who run low cost or “ultra-low cost” carriers. “It’s time to raise our fares, fellas.” Or something to that affect. Of course Parker, who spoke to reporters on the sidelines at the International Air Transport Association’s annual meeting over the weekend in Sydney, Australia, was much more subtle – and legally careful – than that. What he actually said, according to a Reuters report was “If it becomes clear this is the new normal you would see over time less capacity and growth in the industry and therefore higher prices, but I don’t think that’s going to happen in the near term.” But everyone even remotely associated with the U.S. airline industry knows exactly what he meant: oil prices already are way up this year - more than 50% vs. a year ago. That's much more than the industry expected, so airlines need to push their prices up to compensate for those higher costs, or so the thinking goes. There’s only one problem with that. It won’t work. Neither American nor its conventional carrier rivals, Delta and United, have much, or even any, real power to push prices up. That power rests with the industry’s low cost mega-carrier - Southwest. And, truth be told, even Southwest has limited pricing power these days. On many routes it’s the younger, edgier ultra-low cost carriers like Spirit and Frontier, and, in some cases, hybrids like JetBlue, that really call the tune on air fares. So Parker, using the careful language of a man who doesn’t want to become the subject of an anti-trust investigation, is sending his message regarding airlines’ need to raise their prices because of their rising fuel costs. But while he’s hoping the low cost airlines will take the hint, Parker also presented a second option, one that is much less desirable from his perspective. If prices don’t rise soon, and by enough to compensate for higher jet fuel prices, then the big airlines, like his, will have to start reining in their current, relatively aggressive, capacity growth plans. Doing that would both reduce the amount of fuel airlines have to buy, albeit only by a small amount, and give them the economic leverage to raise fare prices. The economic law of supply and demand does tell us, after all, that a reduction in the availability of a good or service tends to cause the price of that good or service to rise. The reality, however, is that neither action is likely to happen any time soon; certainly not before September, and maybe not until the start of 2019, if then. There are at least four – and probably more - reasons why. One, airplanes are full. U.S. carriers are filling, on average 85% or more of their seats. In reality, because some re-positioning and off-hour flights are never very full, a high percentage of their prime travel time flights are 100% full. But if prices were higher, that wouldn’t be the case. Just last week, United President Scott Kirby tried to sell investors at a conference on the idea that air travel demand is “inelastic,” that is a rise in prices would not, in contravention to the laws of economics, trigger a reduction in demand, at least not one that would result in a drop in revenue. Investors aren’t buying it, and nor should you. The New York Stock Exchange ARCA Airline Index has lost nearly 14% since mid-March, when oil prices began their latest move significantly higher. Investors not only recognize that higher fuel prices are cutting into airline profits now, they’re betting that airlines won’t be able to raise fare prices much, if at all, over the next three to six months. That's because serious investors know that raising fare prices more than a dollar or two would result in a drop in revenue as passengers switch to lower-priced competitors, elect to eliminate or reduce their travel, or at the very least buy down into the cheaper sections of conventional airlines’ increasingly segmented planes in response to fare hikes. Indeed, that’s why Parker’s trying to signal (probably in vain) his low, and ultra-low cost competitors that they all should raise their prices. He knows that American – and United and Delta – can’t push through a revenue-positive fare increase unless the steep discounters do so also. Even then, it’s far from certain that industry-wide price increases would drive an increase in revenue because most leisure travelers, and a decent-sized percentage of business travelers remain highly sensitive to air fare price changes. Second, U.S. airlines today are profitable and reasonably healthy financially, even with elevated fuel prices. That’s a very different situation from a decade ago, when even modest swings in the price of oil could send airlines deep into the red or to record profits. Airlines remain highly leveraged to the price of oil, but bankruptcies, reorganizations and mergers have reduced U.S. carriers' labor cost and competitive leverage. The Big Three conventional airlines, plus Southwest, all now have rising labor costs to contend with in addition to higher fuel costs. And competition remains intense (thus their inability to raise prices). But relative to their historical performance, airlines today have their labor costs under control and are no longer subject to disastrously unhealthy levels of competition. Thus, while Parker and other industry leaders may wish for higher prices in order to return to the record levels of profitability that they’ve been enjoying in the last few years, they are not in a desperate situation. And they are not likely to be in such a situation anytime in the foreseeable future. Thus fare hikes are not such an urgent need that they are inevitable. Indeed, they remain unlikely so long as the low cost carriers keep the lid on their prices. Third, oil prices are unstable and hard to predict. And that makes it difficult for airlines to make decisions that could have long-term effects when responding to such short term fluctuations in costs. In fact, Parker couched his subtle price signaling statement with the significant caveat “If it becomes clear this is the new normal.” And, frankly, it’s impossible to tell whether the current trend in oil markets will become the "new normal." Two weeks ago West Texas Intermediate oil peaked north of $72 a barrel, but has fallen about 10% since to around $64 a barrel. Will it go lower still, or reverse its current course and head north again? You can find analysts predicting both - and various variations of - those two courses. So it's hard for airlines to make expensive decisions now on how they will allocate capital, equipment and labor given the lack of clarity on the future of oil prices. Once they change their economic formula, say, by raising prices and/or reducing capacity or capacity growth, they incur a lot of short term costs and would incur even more short term costs if/when they change directions and begin growing again. And that’s before even considering how much business they would lose to discount carriers in the wake of their own price hikes and/or capacity cuts. That brings us to the fourth reason why airlines are unlikely to raise their prices in any significant way any time soon. They’ve all made major commitments to upgrading their fleets with expensive new planes – planes that in most cases are larger than the old planes they’re replacing. Slowing or canceling those acquisitions comes at a huge cost, not only in penalties or lost payments to the likes of Boeing and Airbus, but in staffing and training, and in marketing. And now carrier wants to be the first to announce a slowdown in capacity growth, or, worse, actual capacity shrinkage. If others don’t follow suit, and quickly, the airline that scales back will be certain to lose market share. And as much as airline executives these days try to act like they don’t care about market share anymore, they know that investors will view a declining market share as a major negative. They also know that when good economic conditions return that lost market share will translate into financial underperformance – the kind of underperformance that gets CEOs and their top lieutenants replaced. Now Southwest, intriguingly, indicated on Monday that it's capacity growth this year will likely end up being about 4% instead of their previously advertised 5%-plus capacity growth. But don't expect that to trigger big scale backs by other airlines, at least not by itself. Southwest was among the most aggressive with its growth plans this year, so scaling back that growth plan by one percentage point still means it'll be adding more capacity than any other U.S airline this year. So consumers shouldn’t worry about – and investors shouldn’t bet on – significant airline price hikes in the near term. Now, if oil prices suddenly double again, much about what airlines are doing today would change. But no one expects any such thing to happen. So, for now, Parker and other airline execs may continue to talk about the need to raise fare prices. But that’s pretty much all they’ll be able to do – talk about it. 