Oil cartel OPEC just about managed to keep all of its members onside and attempted to convince the wider market it is bringing more crude barrels to the market, following the conclusion of its latest ministers' meeting in Vienna, Austria on Friday, June 22. Back in November 2016, OPEC initiated its first round of cuts totaling 1.2 million barrels per day (bpd). Subsequently, Russia led 10 non-OPEC oil producers to join OPEC's ranks in cutting their output, thereby padding up the reduction in volume to 1.8 million bpd. However, at the conclusion of proceedings on Friday, United Arab Emirates' Oil Minister and current OPEC President Suhail Al Mazroui said its members – as indicated by several market surveys – got a bit ahead of themselves, and reached a compliance level of as high as 152% in May. "This was done of their own accord by some, while others saw declines due to lack of investment and other factors. So, we have hereby decided that our participating members will strive to adhere to the overall conformity level [expressed in November 2016], i.e. bringing compliance down to 100%, as of July 1, 2018 for the remaining duration of the above mentioned resolution." Al Mazroui declined to give details on which OPEC members would lower output or by how much individually, but added that the move could "nominally" or "loosely" see as much as 1 million bpd of production added to the global supply pool. But pure calculations point to a different outcome. So assuming OPEC actually cut 1.824 million bpd (or 152%) in May and will now only cut 1.2 million bpd as outlined in November 2016; then that amounts to a net addition of 624,000 bpd to the market. The stated figure is quite a distance away from 1 million bpd hike the Saudis and much of the market was craving for. Inevitably, traders voted as such too, with oil futures spiking to an intraday high. At 15:23 pm BST, within the hours that followed the OPEC announcement, the West Texas Intermediate front-month futures contract was up 3.25% or $2.13 to $67.67 per barrel, while Brent was 2.00% or $1.46 higher at $74.51 per barrel. Al Mazroui insisted that OPEC's Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee (JMMC) would continue to observe and enforce further compliance with the "stated" levels. "Our objective is not a specific price level but market stability." Meanwhile, global demand growth has remained strong despite fears of trade wars. The impact of generalized global economic growth has driven demand especially in India, China and the emerging economies. According to the International Energy Agency, global oil demand is likely to average 99 million bpd in 2018, and by some measures may even touch 100 million bpd. Earlier in the day, Al Mazroui also said the cartel is looking to enhance and "institutionalize" the ongoing partnership with non-OPEC producers on the creation of an OPEC-plus framework. It follows news that Congo's application to join OPEC had been accepted taking the total number of member nations to 15. Andy Brogan, Global Oil and Gas Transactions Leader at EY, said the world's oil markets have steadily reached a point of relative balance, driven largely by the ability of OPEC to uphold its agreement around cutting production and maintain discipline. "Overall, compliance with production cuts, which has been strong so far, could weaken in the second half of the year. Some countries brought forward field maintenance to the first half of the year. Output from these fields will need to ramp up as the year goes on, however, to maintain reserves. "The decision taken by OPEC on Friday should provide support to oil prices and sustain the U.S. shale recovery. The possible downside is that the increased activity could lead to inflation in costs and services. Industry participants will need to ensure that inflation does not exceed efficiency gains," Brogan concluded. Joseph Gatdula, Oil and Gas Senior Analyst at GlobalData, said: "The inability of certain OPEC members to raise production will undoubtedly mean the bulk of production increases will be met by the largest producers, though the distribution of increases between members remains unclear."