The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) delayed the start of its 174th Ordinary Meeting this morning for bilateral talks between Iran and Saudi Arabia. Oil ministers Khalid al Falih (Saudi Arabia) and Bijan Namdeh Zangeneh (Iran) met privately just prior to opening the meeting. Last night, Zangeneh stormed out of a technical meeting and pessimistically told reporters that, "I do not think we can reach an agreement." Saudi Arabia and non-OPEC partner Russia are looking for to increase oil output by as much as 1 or 1.5 million barrels per day in response to consumer concerns that oil prices are rising too fast. Iran, on the other hand, will soon face new sanctions from the United States that could take anywhere from 300,000 barrels per day to 500,000 barrels per day of Iranian oil off the market. Iran has threatened to veto any increase in production , although OPEC regulations indicate that even without Iran's support a production increase is still possible. Initially, Iran had the support of Iraq and Venezuela, but both of these countries seem to have relaxed their opposition. Iran is the lone hold-out, but after this morning's meeting with Saudi Arabia, Zangeneh appeared much more optimistic about the possibility of a compromise.    Khalid al Falih told reporters before the OPEC meeting this morning that an agreement was reached last night that would add the equivalent of 1 million barrels per day to the market, but that consumers should not expect OPEC barrels to flood the market immediately. Estimates suggest that only about 500,000 to 600,000 barrels per day would be added.  Consumer anxiety over rising oil prices has been front and center at this OPEC meeting, with China and India - not the United States - of greatest concern . India, in particular, is very concerned about the impact of rising gasoline and diesel prices, especially as many of its large refineries halt purchases of cheap Iranian oil. However, India's consumer anxiety is partially of its own making. India recently increased the taxes it charges consumers for these crude oil products. China has also raised taxes on crude oil consumption that could impact demand from its independent refineries. Oil production, rather than demand, from the United States is also of concern for OPEC. The Saudi oil minister specifically addressed the impact of transportation bottlenecks on production forecasts for U.S. tight oil production. He believes this will slow the growth of shale oil production significantly over the next two years because of this. Oil prices rose slightly before the OPEC meeting, indicating that if OPEC announces an oil production increase less than what is expected, oil prices could rise even more in response. 