So far in 2018, homebuilder stocks have struggled mightily, illustrated by last month's sector-wide pullback caused by Toll Brothers' dismal earnings report. One casualty of those headwinds was Lennar, which has shed about 28% since its January peak near $72. It could be time to reexamine the stock, however, especially with the housing sector in focus throughout this trading week. For instance, it was just reported that housing starts jumped to an 11-year high in May. LEN's chart suggests a bottom could be in place, too. That's because the shares recently bounced from the $50 level precisely, which, aside from being a significant round-number figure on its own, served as a site of months-long consolidation in 2017. Indeed, the equity has been in a narrow channel of higher lows since the mid-May meet-up with this price point, last seen trading at $52. Not only that, but Wall Street has actually cheered Lennar's recent earnings releases. LEN stock has moved higher the session after earnings in four straight quarters, including a 10% surge after the most recent release in April. This is certainly worth mentioning now, with the company set to report earnings next Tuesday, June 26. Even with the event approaching, options traders can grab near-term LEN options at a bargain. That's according to the Schaeffer's Volatility Index (SVI) of 35%, which ranks in the bottom one-third of its annual readings. Plus, data from Schaeffer's Senior Quantitative Analyst Rocky White shows Lennar has historically been one of the most volatile stocks during the summer months. If the company does beat on earnings and the shares jump again, a short squeeze could help spark a subsequent move higher for LEN. Short interest already dropped 13.7% during the past two reporting periods, yet almost 5% of the float is held by short sellers, suggesting there's room for this short covering trend to continue. Visit SchaeffersResearch.com to discover how you can use stock options to complement your investing portfolio.