At the conclusion of its 174th (Ordinary) Meeting in Vienna, Austria, OPEC, in agreement with Russia, announced that it would increase production for the first time since implementing production cuts in November 2016. Oil prices had weakened over the past month as it was widely anticipated that the group would bump output at this meeting. After rising above $70 per barrel in May, the price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) dropped back to $65/barrel leading up to the meeting. Following OPEC's announcement, WTI rallied by more than 4%. Why did crude rally in light of news of a production increase? Primarily because the market had priced in a larger increase. OPEC announced that it would restore about one million barrels per day to the market, beginning next month. Iran had opposed the move, partially in protest of sanctions from the Trump Administration. In reality, the output increase isn't expected to exceed 700,000 barrels per day because some members are already pumping at maximum capacity. Further, this output increase isn't expected to be enough to balance the oil market. The most recent Oil Market Report (OMR) from the International Energy Agency (IEA) projected the amount of oil that would be needed by OPEC through 2019 in order to balance the markets: By the end of this year, the call on OPEC is expected to be nearly 1.5 million BPD more than they were forecast to produce. Thus, even if OPEC managed to follow through on the full output increase, it would not be enough to prevent further declines in global crude oil inventories. Expectations that this production increase won't be enough to stabilize these inventory levels are the primary driver behind higher oil prices. Also bear in mind that Saudi Aramco is still planning its IPO. Saudi Arabia would like oil prices to remain elevated, while appeasing President Trump who had recently called for an output increase by the group. Today's action potentially satisfies President Trump's request while ensuring that oil prices remain strong. It will also make U.S. oil producers happy. 