BP has seen steady growth of late, led by better price realizations for its upstream business. Oil prices have moved this year amid lower inventory levels due to OPEC production cuts, as well as other geopolitical factors. 2017 was a good year for oil companies, as growth in benchmark crude prices boosted their margins. Similarly, in 2018, the average Brent crude oil price is expected to grow 30% from the 2017 average. Accordingly, BP is likely to have a strong 2018. We have created an interactive dashboard analysis which you can use to arrive at your own valuation estimate for BP by modifying the company's key value drivers and forecasts. Expect Upstream Segment To See Strong Growth In The Near Term We estimate BP's Oil & Natural Gas Liquids (NGL) segment revenues to grow in low double digits in 2018. While we expect only a modest uptick in production, we forecast low double digit growth in average price realizations for BP. Our forecast is based on the fact that OPEC and its allies have committed to production cuts throughout 2018, which will result in lower inventory levels. This, in turn, is likely to keep oil prices higher relative to the prior year. Having said that, there is a risk of OPEC changing its course, given a surge in oil exports from the U.S. OPEC is scheduled decide on its policy later this week, on June 22. While OPEC aims to stick to its production cuts throughout 2018, it could make gradual adjustments to offset any supply shortage. This could result in increasing oil production by around 1 million barrels a day, according to reports. The Benchmark Brent price currently stands around $74, after crossing the $80 mark last month. The recent decline in oil prices can be attributed to the expected increase in oil production by OPEC members. We don’t expect any significant decline from the current levels in oil prices in 2018. In fact, EIA forecasts a $71 average for Brent in 2018. Price realizations for oil companies are strongly correlated to benchmark oil prices. If oil prices remain higher in 2018 compared to the 2017 average, it would benefit oil companies such as BP. Looking at the company’s other segments, we expect higher oil prices to drive refining business top line growth. We don’t expect any significant growth for downstream volume, given that higher oil prices will likely impact the overall demand. However, it could boost the average price realized for refined products, thereby aiding the segment's revenue growth. BP has been on a good run overall of late, and there appears to be some upside to the company's valuation. Our $50 price estimate for BP is based on $3.20 expected adjusted EPS in 2018, and a price to earnings multiple of 15.5x. Our EBITDA forecast of $32 billion represents year-on-year growth of around 12%. Of the total expected EBITDA in 2018, we estimate $15 billion in the company’s upstream segment, $8 billion in the midstream, and the downstream operations making up the rest. Our price estimate of $50 for BP is around 10% ahead of the current market price. Our price estimate also takes into account the company’s capital investment plan. In the wake of the improving commodity markets and its aggressive growth plans, BP now aims to spend $15-$17 billion in annual capex over the next few years. The company should also benefit from a decline in its deepwater oil spill expenses. Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own. 