Towards the end of 2017 and for much of the first quarter of this year, both oil futures benchmarks – i.e. Brent, the global proxy gauge, and West Texas Intermediate, the keenly watched U.S. contract – oscillated in very predictable ranges marking a gradual uptick to sub-$70 per barrel for the former, and sub-$65 for the latter by end of Q1 2018. India's rising demand and China's still relatively robust importation levels ensured a drop below $40 was not going to happen. At the same time, a collective production cut deal of 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd) between oil cartel OPEC's 14 members and 10 non-OPEC producers, brokered by Saudi Arabia and Russia - currently scheduled to run through the end of 2018 - kept prices at relative highs but well short of three figures last seen around mid-2014 (see below). Yet, predictability is not something that makes money for speculators. So at the first sign of geopolitical strife they pounce regardless of wherever the market fundamentals might be. Events at the start of Q2 2018, and the weeks that followed gave them that opportunity. There was the issue of air strikes on Syria over its use of chemical weapons. It was followed by the up-scaling of diplomatic tensions in the Middle East, problems in Venezuela and Nigeria, and finally U.S. President Donald Trump's unilateral decision to reimpose sanctions on Iran. Of course, a little help from OPEC, which lacks an exit strategy to its cuts program, also played its part. Murmurings started to surface about many members of the cartel calling for a rolling over of the cuts. As the so-called oil market rally started taking shape in early April, money managers and hedge funds, piled in ever greater numbers with long calls, thereby extending a price uptick that dragged Brent above $80 to levels not seen since November 2014. Outlandish Wall Street quips begin to surface. Take the case of Pierre Andurand, whose Andurand Capital Management is often bullish on oil and has been down on its luck for the first quarter of 2018, according to Bloomberg. In a succession of now deleted tweets, Andurand remarked that concerns over lower investment in upstream oil projects and their lead times over fears of peak demand might bring the largest supply shock ever pushing prices to $300. Andurand's predictions maybe outlandish but he is not alone in talking up the direction of the oil price. You can't blame speculators for speculating; it is in their very nature. They hope that a rally can take hold, so that they make money on the way up as well as down. But what really helps their cause is the presence of market commentators some cynics choose to describe in Leninist terminology as the money managers' "useful idiots." I prefer to call them False Prophets – the very sort who hit the airwaves and wires putting out predictions, not based on the wider macro picture, but on what's most sensationalist and suits the narrative of the speculators, seamlessly switching from bullish to bearish in a matter of few weeks, and in most cases unchallenged by the very networks they've given their price prophecies at, in a very short window of time. Their role - to convince the average Joes and grandma Milly(s) watching the networks, listening to predictions, and having a punt with their own money to support the trend; something that money managers mostly do with other peoples' money. So if you are that average punter here's a little exercise for you. Put in a timed Internet search for "$100 oil price predictions" between Friday, April 6, 2018 (Brent closing price: $67.11, WTI closing price: $62.06) and Friday, May 18, 2018 (Brent closing price: $78.51, WTI closing price: $71.28). The entry point is the day the recent crude rally took hold and the end point is when the wheels started coming off, as the Saudis hinted their output cuts could be tapered off at OPEC's next meeting on June 22. You'll come up with a plethora of articles and video clips of market commentators putting forward an argument for precisely how $100 could happen or is imminent. Now, rewind your timed search back to a time when the oil market was decidedly bearish for a period, as were the money managers. Perhaps the first quarter of 2016, say two weeks either side of Friday, January 15, 2016, when Brent closed at $29.25, even lower than the $29.72 level the WTI ended on that day. Results would reveal many of the same commentators and avenues making equally sensational bearish predictions of a $20 oil price. As was the case then with extremely bearish forecasts, as is the latest case with exaggerated bullish forecasts of recent weeks – both were wildly off the mark, and meant for public consumption for a limited time only. Anyone remember Goldman Sachs' prediction of a $200 oil price back in March 2008? I still do, but here's a refresher courtesy MarketWatch if you need one. Instead, oil subsequently fell below $40, as the U.S. subprime loan crisis soon morphed into a global financial crisis. The wise people at Goldman also predicted a $20 worst case scenario when the oil Sheikhs and U.S. Shale tussle was all the rage at the turn of 2016, and that didn't happen either. That said, don't for a moment assume Goldman is the only one going for the sensational. Half of Wall Street, City of London and much else between them is at it. Many have had average six-month Brent price targets of $80 to $85.00 in place, and even they have failed to materialize let alone a $100 level. That's because rising U.S. shale production has shifted the tectonic plates of the global supply and demand dynamic. In a classic sense, Saudi Arabia remains the world's swing producer. But the U.S. is now a buffer producer on track to cap the output of the Saudis and Russians, and likely to pump in excess of 10 million bpd in the very near future. Were the U.S. economy not also the world's largest consumer of black gold, OPEC would've been hit by a colossal American 'shale-aggedon' and in many it ways it already feels like that. Furthermore, the end of the OPEC/non-OPEC production cut agreement, which could arrive as early as Friday (June 22), and has to at some point, carries a massive downside, as I have always written on Forbes and said on a plethora of broadcasts. The oil price is where it is – and not lower – largely thanks to OPEC cuts. According to the latest S&P Global Platt's survey, in May the cartel's crude production slid for the fourth straight month to 31.90 million bpd; the lowest in over a year. It is largely down to Venezuelan oil production falling to 1.36 million bpd; a 30-year low excluding strike driven outages of December 2002 and January 2003. The Saudis are in fact already pumping more, as are selected others within OPEC including Algeria, Iraq and the United Arab Emirates. Even if you discount lower production in Libya, Nigeria and Venezuela for much of 2018, there will be more oil for a global economy where only two of its biggest five consumers, i.e. India and China, are importing in incremental volumes, while the other three – U.S., Japan and South Korea aren't. And just last month, the International Energy Agency trimmed its 2018 world demand growth projection by 40,000 bpd to 1.4 million bpd, projecting total global consumption at 99.2 million bpd, paradoxically citing the impact of relatively higher oil prices for its revision. That demand level can be comfortably met, and then some, by current production levels. What's more, burgeoning secondary demand for light crude in Asia is being increasingly catered to by U.S. exporters, as Indonesian and Malaysian production declines. Yet, cognizant of all these macro permutations, outlandish predictions of a possible $100 oil price kept coming for not one or two sessions, but eight weeks from early April to end May. Brent had up until then remained in backwardation, i.e. the traded price was higher than the forward price, in expectation of increasing supply. A succession of long calls meant the 6-month Brent calendar spread eased from a backwardation of $3.50 per barrel on 26 April to around $1.50 by end-May, but it still remained in backwardation. Only the front-month contract slipped from backwardation to contango, i.e. the traded price was lower than the forward price, partly because most hedge fund activity is clustered around the front-end of the futures curve. Of course, now that recent revelations – including a Reuters report claiming that Trump can impress a crude agenda upon the Saudis – have turned the market bearish, the False Prophets are back in action on the very networks and channels talking down the oil prices, where pontificating on $100 oil prices was all the rage a mere fortnight ago. Stark reality is that the oil market will remain predictably boring. We'll keep oscillating between $60 and $80 this year using Brent as a benchmark. Neither a plunge to $30 and nor a spike to $100 – bar a major geopolitical shock of the unlikely magnitude of a pipeline knockout in Saudi Arabia – appears to be on the horizon. Brent is likely to average $65-70 and WTI $60-65 for 2018 in my opinion; although some ratings agencies have an even lower oil price forecast and hedge funds are also scrambling to trim their long calls. Trade the news weekly, and even if you are short-term long, be long-term short as most physical traders I know never bought into the recent chatter of three figure oil prices in the first place. Just like they aren't buying overtly pessimistic forecasts either. Neither should you, as it is best not to go to war with market fundamentals carrying your own money; afterall False Prophets rarely do so. The above commentary is meant to stimulate discussion based on the author's opinion and analysis. It is not solicitation, recommendation or investment advice to trade oil and gas futures, options or products. Oil and gas markets can be highly volatile and opinions in the sector may change instantaneously and without notice.