Now that OPEC members have reached an agreement to lift oil output, albeit modestly, the overhang is gone and it may be time to consider buying oil and gas stocks. Analysts at Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. have some ideas in what they continue to think is a tightening commodity environment. They contend that the global oil market needs more barrels to meet robust demand against a backdrop of supply headwinds (i.e., Venezuelan production declines, prospective Iran sanctions, dearth of major new projects, etc.). So they are recommending five U.S. stocks across the energy value chain to buy and own for the long haul. The first is Irving, Texas-based oil and gas explorer and producer Pioneer Natural Resources, which has operations in West Texas' and New Mexico's Permian Basin, South Texas' Eagle Ford Shale and the Texas Panhandle. The company has been selling non-core assets recently and TPH thinks the proceeds will likely be directed toward stock buybacks given that its balance sheet is already unlevered (which would be a plus for investors). In the midstream, or infrastructure, industry, the firm recommends Houston-based Targa Resources Corp., which owns pipelines and processing assets. That company also has been selling non-core assets recently, including its inland marine barges to Kirby Corp. last month for $69 million. But it's been looking for ways to expand as well, including an agreement with Stonepeak Infrastructure Partners in February to pursue $1.1 billion worth of development joint ventures.    Among refiners, the analysts are bullish on Valero Energy Corp., which is based in San Antonio and is focused on refining, ethanol and midstream master limited partnership Valero Energy Partners. TPH upgraded Valero's stock to a buy rating versus hold last month on positive industry trends. The analysts also like chemicals maker Olin Corp., which is based in Missouri and focused on chlor alkali products, vinyls and epoxy (it also has the Winchester segment, which makes ammunition). They say the stock is a compelling value play given negative investor sentiment and positive underlying fundamentals. They think the company will use free cash flow to de-lever, which will reduce the risk in the stock and potentially improve its multiple. Finally, in oilfield services, TPH recommends The Woodlands, Texas-based Apergy Corp., a Dover Corp. spinoff that provides artificial lift systems, well-site automation and diamond drill bit inserts to the sector. The firm initiated coverage of the stock in May with a buy rating and a $42 per share price target (it recently traded around $38). The company was recently added to the S&P MidCap 400 Index, replacing 3D Systems. 