Young women, after a few days in Venice, turn into ripe pears, succulent, soft and shiny-skinned. Glowy. This is like our still adolescent Facebook which shows annualized 5-year growth of 51.5%, practically double Netflix’s numbers with Amazon at 23.8%. She, Facebook, is ranked numero uno in earnings per share growth. Not that all this holds predictive value, but nice to know. Meanwhile, magazines and newspapers struggle to replace fleeing print subscribers with Internet subscriptions. AT&T just summarily detached the “Time” from Time Warner. Life and Time as news magazines dominated the forties and fifties, media giants and taste makers. Life’s cover price was 15 cents in 1947 and The New York Times sold for 3 cents, daily, more on Sundays. Now, a 33-year-old kid has replaced Henry Luce as media king. Time, Inc. never sold at a $500 billion market capitalization, but as a mid-cap, rather secretive OTC stock some 50 years ago. AT&T wisely chose to counter their wasting asset, cable subscribers, in dealing for Time Warner. But, why did AT&T as a stock overnight sink 5% upon prevailing over the government’s flawed case? Call it capricious stupidity. Maybe, players figure Trump prevails in his “false news” rant against CNN and that Home Box Office is no match against Netflix. In a stock market setting riddled with geopolitical turmoil, players like me ask themselves whether it’s time to hide out. Steven Mnuchin should be ashamed of himself, not resigning as Secretary of the Treasury. Why won’t he interject that China has allocated trillions of dollars in U.S. Treasuries, thereby putting a lid on our interest rates which foster our own GDP momentum? Do unemployed steel workers in Pennsylvania and Indiana comprehend that there’s worldwide overcapacity in steel plants and mutual tariff hikes only reduce product demand for machinery, autos and oil pipe? The OPEC pricing football is getting slippery, too. Is the market saying more supply coming? Absolutely. Energy, a sizable market sector now is suspect. Worry about oil sinking below $60 must impact MLP holdings. Yields, some ranging above 7% seem adequately covered so I hang in. Drilling down into the market, sector by sector, I’m coming up dry, excepting technology. I lump Internet properties and e-commerce stocks like Amazon and Alibaba as a separate and distinct sector. They’re brutal forces in place, destroying traditional shopping centers and cramping operating profit margins across-the-board for retailers. Death rattles come out of Sears Holdings, once a proud growth stock that sold above 30 times earnings late sixties. Consider, Amazon has no bottom line worth a mention and Alibaba is not represented in the S&P 500 nor NASDAQ indices. These are $700 billion market capitalizations which would place them among top 10 in the S&P 500. If you look at Internet stocks, namely Alphabet and Facebook, they seem headed towards 5% positions in the listing. Some 20% of the market’s capitalization ascribed my way is compressed into a handful of stocks plus Netflix. Adjusted for volatility they’d be closer to 40% of the market’s weighting. Throw in Microsoft, too. In short, the market can’t range higher and leave such pretties in the dust. If we get a whiff of fish from this group, the market must take gas, at least a 10% correction, maybe more. Assume the S&P 500 coasts along, valued at 17 times forward 12 months earnings power (why not?). Internet and e-commerce paper easily sell at 1.5 to 2 times the market’s multiplier. Their enterprise value to EBITDA probably grows mid-teens to 25%, annually. For Facebook, much more. The exception is Amazon which sells on some multiple of latent earnings power, a dangerous metric as is the yield on net free cash flow. When analysts hype this paper on multiples to revenues, head for the hills. Nobody, of course, mentions that the variance between GAAP and non-GAAP earnings holds at 20% or more for houses like Facebook and Salesforce.com. I’ve drawn the line on Salesforce.com. So, I missed this baby as well as Netflix, a category killer like Amazon, which I can’t begin to model with any confidence. Historically, if you keep within your discipline you come out OK. Warren Buffett missed all these growthies and fell back on Apple, which sells at the market’s multiplier, a treasure house of free cash flow. What he craves above all. Until I sense Facebook advertising revenues are peaking, I’m all in because it’s operating profit margin runs at the heady ratio of 46%. Even with an extraordinary R&D spend, FB can easily show earnings growth of 25% or more. Everyone’s going to devour its June quarter earnings statement, magnifying glass at hand. Most everything else by sector leaves me cold or indifferent. Industrials and financials stand fully priced based on historic valuation multipliers. Energy as well, now subjected to OPEC’s whims. Most drug houses are struggling along with the nondurables sector. Earnings power for the market is being saved by the rising ratio of personal consumption spending. The tax cut is being spent and corporations are set to buy back more stock than normally done. Nothing to write home about. As for my ragamuffins, General Motors and AT&T, GM has come through with a 20% rally while T is a doggy, dog, dog. Disbelief is brewing that its dividend is secure. But, a 6% yield is rare on the Big Board. Not even achievable in BB bonds of 10 years’ duration. AT&T is a screaming buy if it holds earnings power even flattish. Don’t expect more than token dividend increases next couple of years. The deal does take it out of the slow death category, which is good enough for me. T on one end of the barbell with Facebook, Alphabet, Amazon and Alibaba opposite. Sounds crazy, but probably hits pay dirt next 12 months. The market is much smarter than the front page of The New York Times which chronicles daily Trump’s transgressions. His petty foggery in foundation grants rings so true. The market ignores all of the reporters’ and columnists’ findings. After all, you can’t label Trump as a stand-in for Herbert Hoover. Just the opposite. The looming federal deficit stands years away so not discountable as yet by the Street. Awakened early by the resonant humming of motor launches plowing through the choppy currents in the Canal Grande, I felt at rest in a 15th century city whose geopolitical problems rest as ancient history. I first arrived in Venice summer of 1951 with a rucksack on my back. Stayed at youth hostels for 25 cents a night (4 guys to a room, 2 double decker beds). A bowl of pasta cost you another dime. In pre-airconditioned Venice we stayed up all night, singing in the Piazza San Marco. Then, you bought a Europass for around 15 bucks, a student rate, that permitted travel by rail throughout Europe. Was the vaporetto free then in Venice? Maybe a couple of coppers at most. Those days, AT&T was known as Ma Bell. Haloid Xerox was a small OTC name and IBM’s major new product offer was its Selectric typewriter. Secretaries loved its ease of operation and type-over feature. The Korean War was into its second year then, lest we forget. Politicians, damn them, termed it a police action, not a war. I was there in ‘52, slogging, freezing in the mud and snow. In the infantry, we foot soldiers called it a war. Back home, nobody cared. Hopefully, this time it’s different. Sosnoff and his managed accounts own: Facebook, Amazon, AT&T, Alibaba, Alphabet, Microsoft and General Motors. msosnoff@gmail.com