Replacement value, or RV, analysis – adding up how much a company's assets would cost if you had to replace them – has long been considered a speculative tool for figuring out how much a company is worth. As such, it's typically used as merely a reality check on a company's valuation in the stock market. But lately John Daniel, a senior research analyst at Piper Jaffray's Simmons & Co. International, has been getting client requests for such an analysis on smaller to medium-sized oilfield services companies. Many of these companies have seen their stocks slide 20% to 40% this year versus a 3.6% gain for the S&P 500 and a flat performance for the OSX oil service index. Daniel said the inquiries suggest a combination of interest in downside support for these smaller names – and "hopefully, bottom fishing." Such an analysis can be difficult. It's hard to assign value if the assets' quality isn't clear or disclosed, which some companies withhold for competitive reasons, the analyst said. So to simplify the exercise, Daniel ascribed similar asset values across the peer group based on auction results and recent asset sales, making adjustments if he believed utilization was better or worse, including haircuts for persistently idle equipment. "This is hardly an infallible exercise," he said. The results? Valuations relative to net asset value, or NAV, suggest a 15% to 50% downside for non well-service names such as RPC Inc., FTS International Inc., Liberty Oilfield Services Inc., ProPetro Holding Corp. and Mammoth Energy Services Inc., with FTS having the worst variance at a negative 52.9%. However, those in the well-service sector – Basic Energy Services Inc., C&J Energy Services Inc., Key Energy Services Inc. and Ranger Energy Services Inc. – show the most relative upside of 45% on average, with Basic Energy topping the list at 112.4%. Daniel said the explanation for the disparity is the profitability nuances between the business segments, with pressure pumping companies generating healthy Ebitda and cash flow while profitability in well servicing "has been a hope and aspiration," he said. The analyst said traditional valuation metrics would screen more favorably if an investor focused solely on enterprise value/Ebitda, thought oil prices would go up in the long term and would be willing to accept near-term uncertainty regarding the Permian Basin and moderating activity. "If not, then the implied downside from an NAV perspective is worth contemplating," he said. Simmons previously assigned overweight ratings to Basic, FTI, Liberty, Mammoth, ProPetro, C&J, Key and Ranger, meaning the firm expects the stocks to outperform the median of their peer group. It has a neutral rating for RPC, meaning it's expected to perform at the median of the group. The biggest question, of course, is when oilfield service stocks will turn around. With OPEC scheduled to meet later this week to decide whether to keep production cuts in place or increase output, it's difficult to guess. Whatever happens, independent research firm Rystad Energy seems optimistic about the oilfield services sector. It said in a report today that it expects improved market fundamentals will translate into better industry performance in the coming quarters. It's also predicting that the oilfield services market will grow this year by 3.8% over 2017, well services and commodities in particular by 12%. 