Conceived out of a Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and U.S. Department of Energy Project back in 1981, Aspen Technology – or AspenTech (NASDAQ: AZPN) – is no stranger to the level of process optimization 'Big Oil' and the wider industrials complex visibly seeks these days. For over three decades, AspenTech – listed on the Nasdaq since 2010 – has conjured up solutions to manage and optimize plant and process design, operational performance, and supply chain planning. But in a competitive sphere where dormancy is nothing short of perilous, Antonio Pietri, President and Chief Executive Officer of AspenTech, is leading what he describes as the company's "next transformative wave." AspenTech underwent its first transformation under Pietri's predecessor Mark Fusco, who executed a corporate turnaround strategy, involving a consolidation of assets and moved its revenue recognition model to subscription revenue. "When I was appointed CEO in October 2013, my first task was to envision what is going to sustain the company over the next 10 to 15 years, via initiatives that will continue to drive growth for the company, and that's really in the context of a very successful outfit, and a global leader in process optimization," Pietri says. And the AspenTech loyalist, who has been at the company for 25 years, adds his outfit is no stranger to regular massive transformations. "In the mid to late 1990s, we moved from modelling and engineering design to the process optimization space and made it our own patch. To provide context, we estimated in 2015 from the installed base of our products in the process industries that their usage results in savings of $50 billion per year in value. So that's incremental profitability for our clients." And in order to build on that success, AspenTech has now ventured into the plant maintenance space. "That's because we felt that this was an area that was certainly using software but with an administrative premise. There was no real use of technology from an efficiency and operational improvement perspective. "The maintenance process had been the same for 30 to 40 years, and as we looked into it, we became convinced that the convergence of technology, cloud computing, machine learning and analytics provide ample opportunities to revolutionize and disrupt this arena – in that instead of doing it preventively, it could be done prescriptively or predictively." As corporate luck would have it, given the oil price slump of 2015, energy players began scrambling to minimize downtime. A drive for maintenance efficiencies added another layer to what these companies were already working on with AspenTech. "The market downturn meant less capex was available for these companies and they started work on maximizing throughput but with less capital for asset maintenance. Given that business opportunity, while our solutions were state-of-the-art, our pitch was pretty simple - if you know a failure is likely, imagine the savings you derive if you can gear up for it, prevent it and minimize the downtime." Unsurprisingly, pitch worked with Borealis Refining to Royal Dutch Shell signing on, and the examples of maintenance efficiency savings Pietri flags up include just about everything from shifting locomotives to natural gas. "For instance, a major oil company operating a liquefied natural gas facility in Australia swears by our solutions. They had four large on-site compressors with one of the compressors failing twice a year and they could not figure out why. Every time it failed it cost them $40 million. The manufacturer of the compressor and the company's own data scientists were called in and they could not figure it out as well. "Upon learning about our software, they called us and within a week we were able to identify via predictive and prescriptive machine learning what was wrong with the compressor and now they have addressed the issue." Pietri says that from a pure play perspective AspenTech has now effectively moved to total asset optimization (design, operate and maintain) services and not just process optimization, for over three years and counting. "And we are a unique company in the sense that we are a pure software technology company for the industrial space but not an industrial. Our competitors have always been Honeywell, Schneider Electric, Yokogawa, etc. Who have software businesses in the industrial domain that compete with us. "Then on the other side you have companies like Emerson, ABB and Siemens – industrials that don't have an overlapping software portfolio to ours." With its asset optimization business in growth mode, AspenTech unveiled a strategic tie-up with Emerson earlier this year. The partnership will initially focus on three key areas – engineering software, including high-fidelity simulation to help validate project design and train operators before start-up; manufacturing and supply chain software, including advanced process control software designed for highly complex operations; and, of course, asset performance management software to improve plant reliability. "We have the global leading technology in multi-variable control and Emerson did not have that capability, but its rivals do. So in partnership with us, they are able to go to the market to compete with rival industrials." But AspenTech remains what Pietri describes as "industrial platform neutral or hardware agnostic." "Emerson is a very valuable partner, but if an end client is using Siemens or ABB hardware, it does not bother us. Refinery, chemicals, oil platforms – all have different distributed plant control systems provided by the industrials and we have always sat above those systems. That will not change." Furthermore, with everyone from the industrials to Microsoft entering the Industrial Internet of Things, or IIoT, arena, the AspenTech boss says his company's solutions are not just hardware agnostic bit also "IIoT agnostic" and completely at peace with whatever the so-called 'Industry 4.0' wave throws at it. "That wave is getting bigger. My entire career has been in this industry. I had a front row seat to the introduction of digitization and technologies to the process industries. When I first entered the industry all those years ago, I was an advanced process control engineer and found it to be a very conservative industry. "Fast forward to 2018, and things could not be more different. In the last 12 months, I can tell you from personal experience that we come up with a technological solution, people queue up to make inquiries. I see a rapid acceleration of Industry 4.0 technology in the market in the next 2 to 3 years as knowledge augmentation, providing cognitive guidance and machine learning proliferate." With known instances of plants still using Windows XP, Pietri says it's AspenTech's job to overcome the issue of legacy structures. "Forget Windows XP, sometimes our guys turn up to size up maintenance processes and find people using physical measuring tapes, handwritten logs and notepads!" Given its expanding product portfolio, the Bedford, Massachusetts, U.S.-based company's innovative streak is being rewarded by the market. AspenTech's market cap is just under $7 billion at the time of writing, with a 47% uptick in its share price since the start of the current trading year. Its fiscal third quarter revenue came in at $125.9 million; up 5.1% on an annualized basis. Last year, AspenTech posted headline growth of 4.1%, and Pietri expects growth of 5-7% for the year ending June 30, 2018. Given innovation is its bread and butter, the company spends around 17% of its headline revenue on research and development (R&D). "A lot of that goes into our existing products, delivering incremental innovation to keep ourselves relevant to our clients' needs. We start thinking about acquisitions when we seek adjacent or complementary technology that adds value to our portfolio. If you look at our investments in the last two years, we have made around $140-150 million of acquisitions and for me it's more about the quality of the acquisition target's products than its revenue." But take that spending in the context of $500 million allocated towards R&D investment over the corresponding period, Pietri adds. "I'd say we have corporate discipline and strong cash-flow that enables self-funding of these acquisitions. While we've made some strategic acquisitions, much of our growth has been organic, and that has been the key to our core offering and market presence."