Once again, OPEC has reached an agreement despite a fair amount of dissension, informally increasing quotas by 1 mb/d (but in real terms, probably half that), and reactions have been all over the place, from fears that raising production reduces the available spare capacity to a belief that the Saudis ran roughshod over the Iranians as part of their greater geopolitical struggle. So far, no one has suggested that Melania Trump’s fashion choices were a factor in the decision, but don’t be surprised if such is forthcoming. The fact that an agreement was reached is positive news, but there are worrying signs, including the way that Iran’s interpretation of the agreement differs from the other producers, especially Russia and Saudi Arabia, the vagueness of the production allowances, and the apparent desire from some producers, especially Russia, to relax production constraints. For old geezers, I mean, long-time market observers, most of what occurred is same old same old. That members in political or military conflict can meet and agree on production quotas is hardly new: Iran and Iraq waged a bloody eight year war but had no trouble cooperating within the context of OPEC. Also, smaller members with less capacity have nearly always opposed raising quotas, arguing for decades that the organization should have a higher price target, which is sensible, given that they would gain revenue but had no need to protect their long-term market share. And yes, the world’s most powerful tweeter had criticized oil producers for high prices (“at it again”), but I think every president since Nixon had done the same. (Criticize, not tweet.) And largely been ignored, although they have always been quick to take credit when producers act to lower prices, but never taken any action when they didn’t. While it is possible that the Saudi decision had some geopolitical implications, it seems very clear that the market trends are the driving factor. Inventories are back to normal, prices have “recovered” (whatever that means), and rather than cheating, members are actually not meeting their quotas (in aggregate). That is mainly due to physical problems in Venezuela (and Angola and Mexico) which are likely to worsen, so more supply now makes sense. This is especially true from the point of view of large reserve owners like Saudi Arabia, who worry about losing sales in the long-term if prices are too high (whatever that means). They’ve been there before (1986) and seen the threat from unconventional oils (oil sands and shale oil), as well as booming deepwater production (Brazil, Guyana, etc.) Statements by Saudi Minister al-Falih suggest that the country is, in fact, trying to avoid runaway prices that would allow much more production from competitors, which implies that the possibility of hitting $100 a barrel has sharply decreased. The decision not to assign specific numbers for individual members probably comes from an intent to offset Venezuelan losses without formally allowing members to increase production. However, this is a large loophole that allows those countries with spare (or increasing) capacity to add the amount they wish, that is, each can take an overlarge share of the replacement production. This is not too dangerous, given that only three countries have much unused capacity (Iraq, Russia, and Saudi Arabia), meaning they can’t take advantage of the lack of specific production numbers to ramp up supply beyond what they would have been allocated. The Saudis have the lion’s share of spare capacity, but are very likely to try to add only moderate amounts of supply to the market so as to prevent another price crash. Still, Russian and Iraq are still expanding capacity and it is possible that their output will grow as the year progresses, and if the market weakens in the fourth quarter, this could become a contentious issue. Another worrying sign comes from Russia, which is producing over its quota already, and where it seems as if the oil industry has pressured the government to push for higher production quotas. Given the perception that Putin rules by an iron hand, and Russia’s oil industry is generally thought to be allied with him, it implies that either his grip is slipping or he is quietly permitting his friends to profit—which seems more probable. Longer-term, though, Russia’s production will be scrutinized closely by OPEC members. Ultimately, there is little chance of a sharp decline in prices as long as the Venezuelan industry is in meltdown and the global economy continues its strong growth. The former is almost certain to continue to collapse, but even modest recovery will take at least a few months, so there is little threat to prices from that corner. On the other hand, the economic bulls now find themselves in a trade war china shop, the demand picture could become more cloudy. If some members aggressively add to supply as the year progresses and the market weakens again, the next OPEC+ gathering could be much more contentious.