Internal strife, dissensions in the ranks, threat of oil production quota discipline breaking down, fears of trade wars and unpredictable actions by none other than the President of the United States, are certainly issues OPEC Secretary General Mohammed Barkindo could do without under most circumstances. Given that it has all fallen into his in-tray, right around OPEC's 7th International Seminar – the latest installment of the cartel's once-in-a-few years jamboree that kicked off on Wednesday (June 20) in Vienna, Austria – is certainly not something he would have wished for. It's a bit simplistic to assume that the current incumbent of the White House could be the source of all of Barkindo's troubles, and, of course, the Secretary General himself would never say so directly. However, Trump is a good starting point. Over the course of the so-called oil price rally seen over much of April and May, Trump first took a swipe at OPEC blaming it for high prices in a tweet, then unilaterally withdrew from the Iran nuclear settlement and subsequently imposed sanctions on Tehran. As if that wasn't enough, came the revelation - via a Reuters exclusive - that OPEC heavyweight Saudi Arabia had promised higher oil production to the U.S. ahead of the imposition of sanctions on Iran; its historic arch rival within and beyond OPEC. Given this backdrop, the 14-member oil cartel appears to be heading back to its old ways, with Gulf producers wanting an increase in crude production, and likes of Iran and Venezuela vehemently opposing it. All of it is in the midst of 10 non-OPEC producers led by Russia – who are currently partnering with OPEC on a 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd) quota cut till the end of 2018 – gagging for a production uptick with global oil inventories having dropped to their 5-year average. Yet, things are what they are, and before Barkindo opened proceedings, the assembled press core was told "there will be a deal" come Friday and Saturday (June 22-23) when OPEC ministers meet first, and follow that up by a conversation with 10 non-OPEC ministers led by Russia. On stage, as ever the statesman, Barkindo chose to sidetrack the entire kerfuffle, instead issuing a call for industry unity citing the English poet John Donne: "No man is an island entire of itself; Every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main. "It is vital all stakeholders work together to meet the challenges, as well as the opportunities before us, as the overall theme of the [OPEC] Seminar underscores." He also reminded the audience of the historic 24 oil producers' output cut agreement brokered by Russia and Saudi Arabia in December 2016, which finally, and somewhat artificially, dragged the oil market discourse out of the fashionable 'lower for longer' narrative."The impact of that historic cooperation has exceeded even the most optimistic of predictions. We have not only turned a historic page, but a new glorious chapter is being authored in the history of the industry by OPEC and its non-OPEC partners," Barkindo noted. "Bringing together 24 producing nations is unparalleled in the history of the oil industry. It is also a platform that is open to all producers." Yet within minutes of the Secretary General's speech, quotes by Russian oil minister Alexander Novak - who has stayed away from the OPEC event having sent his deputy – hit the wires. Speaking in Belarus, and having probably eyed OPEC's internal strife, Novak said he intends to push for a "1.5 million bpd of oil production increase" with the cartel this year. But the Venezuelans and Iranians have said they will "veto" any moves to raise OPEC's production, preferring instead to actually blame Trump's sanctions – incidentally on both nations – as being the primary reason behind high oil prices. The Iranian Minister Bijan Zangeneh was particularly, and unsurprisingly, scathing of the U.S. in his OPEC Seminar keynote. "If anyone is to be blamed for higher prices, it is the U.S. which has imposed sanctions on a major oil producer like Iran. The main reason for the oil price increase is political. Since May 8 [when Trump withdrew from Iran Nuclear deal] the price uptick was almost $6 per barrel in the weeks that followed." Separately, Zangeneh has also threatened to leave Vienna before OPEC's deliberations with 10 non-OPEC oil producers take place on Saturday (June 23). Meanwhile, rumors here in Vienna suggest Gulf producers want a hike of at least 300,000 bpd but remain wary of the impact of possible trade wars between the U.S., European Union and China on oil demand. Trump's antics, according to many Gulf OPEC delegates remain "unknown variables." The International Energy Agency (IEA) recently trimmed its 2018 world demand growth projection by 40,000 bpd to 1.4 million bpd, projecting total global consumption at 99.2 million bpd, paradoxically citing the impact of relatively higher oil prices for its revision. Atop this, a further drag on demand could throw another spanner in the OPEC works. All things said, deal or no deal, compromise or divergence, consensus or disharmony - the market should expect weaker OPEC and non-OPEC compliance with the stated 1.8 million bpd cut that has at times seen participants' cut by as much as 120% of their stated levels, according to some industry surveys. Saudi Arabia has a spare capacity of 2.02 million bpd going by IEA data. So if it unilaterally decides to hike production, nudged on by Trump and provides a pretext for the Russians to do likewise, all crude bets are off, with the U.S. itself due to pump well above 10 million bpd in 2018. The level might not be known, but the market can expect more oil. 