The near-certainty that Venezuelan production will collapse, along with ongoing problems in Libya and possible Iranian difficulties selling oil after the U.S. denounced the nuclear agreement, have raised worries about the ability of Saudi Arabia to offset sudden production losses. “No one has really assessed the Saudi spare capacity capabilities though, with a majority of analysts taking the aggressive rhetoric for granted.” Now, it would be tempting to dismiss this as another round of the pessimism such as informed Twilight in the Desert, published over a decade ago, which predicted the imminent decline in Saudi (and global) oil production because, well, they have problems. And the article cited above does, to some extent, repeat that theme. But an even older geezer like me would remind the reader of a scene from 1971’s Middle East Oil and the Western World: Prospects and Problems, about the developments during the 1967 Arab-Israeli War and the first (short-lived) Arab Oil Embargo. President Johnson had called upon his fellow Texans to raise oil production to offset the Middle Eastern losses and been told, no doubt by very embarrassed regulators and oil men, that the 3 mb/d of reported spare capacity was, well, more nominal than real. Because Texas producers were allocated production quotas based on their capacity, there had been a tendency to overstate that number (shocking, I know).    After the event, analysis suggested that the actual spare capacity could be brought on line only gradually, over the course of 30 to 90 days, and even then the nominal capacity level was unlikely to be reached. This should not have been a surprise; idle equipment does not exist outside the space-time continuum, and is subject to the normal processes of decay. Few operators will spend money to maintain idle equipment. What about the Saudi strategic capacity? Given that Saudi oil production costs are at or near the world’s lowest, the effort (meaning money) needed to maintain unused capacity is not going to be much of a challenge. Problems that some describe in the Saudi oil fields, such as “corrosion and biological fowling [sic]” are either not new or not unique to Saudi Arabia and hardly insurmountable. Which is not to say that idle wells can be brought back into production at the flip of the switch. Given that the country hasn’t produced above 10.7 mb/d (which wasn’t long ago), it is arguable that they have many wells (with capacity more than 1 mb/d) that haven’t been maintained and would require at least some effort—and thus delay—to bring back on line. Could a Venezuelan collapse find Saudi Arabia scrambling to offset the lost supply? There is, in fact, an excellent historical analogy. In late 2002, a strike at Petroleos de Venezuela (PDVSA) shut in that country’s oil production for several months and in late March 2002, the second Gulf War caused Iraqi production to cease for a time. In between them, Saudi production rose by 1.5 mb/d over four months—the sharpest increase in history (as near as I can tell). And production had not been over 8.5 mb/d for nearly two years, implying more than 1 mb/d had not been active for some time. Again, Saudi Aramco does not operate on a shoestring budget and they are highly likely to have the personnel and equipment to bring most if not all idle capacity on-line within a matter of weeks, not months. If anything, the biggest lag could be in the decision-making, given the uncertainty not just about the current market balance, but the path of any Venezuelan disruption. It seems unlikely that PDVSA’s production will simply dribble down slowly to zero (or a small amount for domestic consumption). More probably, the system will collapse as, for example, remaining oil workers walk off the job, possibly shutting down wells and pipelines and maybe even sabotaging them; large production/transport nodes could break down; or even potentially legal entanglements could disrupt their operations and trade, such as the recent Conoco effort to enforce the arbitration award it received for the nationalization of its assets a decade ago. Precisely how Venezuelan production is disrupted will influence the Saudi decision to raise production. If widespread civil unrest brings the economy as a whole to a halt, but the government manages to retain its hold on power, then the Saudis might send out a bat-signal to its engineers to open the valves. On the other hand, if it appears to be due more to a work stoppage which the government attempts to resolve through negotiations, the Saudis might perceive it to be unnecessary to spend the (relatively small) amounts of money needed to rehabilitate the idle wells, and instead adopt a wait-and-see attitude. The fact that inventories are now at roughly normal levels and prices appear to be more or less acceptable (yes, that is a very fuzzy term), the Saudis should be expected to respond promptly to a major supply loss. Should the losses come due to the ongoing effort to rein in Iranian adventurism (which seems to be a primary factor behind the Trump decision to withdraw from the agreement), the Saudis are that much more likely to act. The upshot is that a complete loss of Venezuelan crude to world markets is unlikely to have more than a minor and temporary impact on oil prices, depending on its duration and how the Saudis, especially, react. Given their past behavior, it seems unlikely that the Saudis would add injury to insult by standing by while prices rise to unsustainable levels (or what they consider unsustainable levels, which is another matter). How other producers react to a boost in Saudi production will be another matter, as the Vienna Agreement could be abandoned entirely. This could mean difficulty for the group as Venezuelan production is restored by a new government, although that is clearly not imminent. 