Again and again, market observers have been confounded by their inability to differentiate between transient events and long-term, physical constraints. After the first oil price increase in 1973, many argued for mean-reversion and thus were discredited when prices soared during the 1979 Iranian Oil Crisis. After that second price spike, there was near-unanimous consensus that oil prices must continue to rise because of insurmountable supply constraints, which of course proved completely wrong. The lesson is not that prices can’t be forecast, but what matters is why a forecast was right or wrong. Napoleon preferred generals who were lucky rather than smart, but he wound up on St. Helena Island, after all. Those predicting mean-reversion in the mid-1970s were wrong because of an unusual event, the 1979 Iranian Revolution. Those who predicted ever-rising prices after 1979 were wrong because they mis-interpreted the short-term nature of the price spike, that is, its source in a specific political event, not fundamental market trends. In effect, those who in the mid-1970s predicted higher prices got lucky, those who predicted higher prices after 1979 were simply wrong. (Similarly, the peak oil advocates who thought rising prices in 2004 and later were not due to Gulf War II, the Arab Spring, and so forth but the physical impossibility of raising supply found themselves embarrassed when prices fell in 2014, which is why many have fallen silent.) The OPEC meeting next week, aside from providing revenue for the airline industry (and Viennese bars) takes place amidst significant uncertainty about the supply/demand balance in the next six months. While it appears highly certain that Venezuelan production will keep declining, and probably collapse, the potential disruption to Iranian supplies of the Trump Administration’s policy is hard to predict, and Libyan production levels are unpredictable from day to day. Those anticipating higher long-term prices ($80-100 by 2020 roughly) rely on expectations that the post-2014 decline in upstream investment will result in lower non-OPEC supply, while economic growth remains robust. The latter might prove optimistic, but demand could remain relatively strong; it’s the former where the great uncertainty lies. The 44% drop in upstream petroleum investment from 2014 to 2016 is less cause for alarm than for reflection (and analysis). From the birds-eye view, this seems worrying, implying a contraction of non-OPEC supply, especially if one believes the ‘higher modern depletion rates require more investment’ argument which some have made. But if falling costs are taken into effect, and high-grading, or investing in the best projects, the impact overall should be fairly small. Probably what should concern markets more is the degree to which the current elevated prices depend on factors that are almost certain to be short-term. Economic growth is unlikely to remain at current levels. Low unemployment almost always signals a slowdown, interest rates are rising, fiscal policy is tightening, and the one-time effect of the Trump tax cut will not last much longer. The figure below shows that recent OECD demand has been elevated; it might continue, but the smart money should bet against it. With interest rates rising, economic growth could slow or stall; no expansion lasts forever. The drop in Venezuelan production is an important factor and seems likely to continue—indeed, exports could altogether cease (and soon). At the moment, exports are approximately 1 mb/d, and declining 50 tb/d/month, but could stop abruptly at any moment. However, clearly the decline won’t continue beyond a year or so (blind extrapolation suggests 2 years to zero), and the government is almost certain to change before year’s end (political prediction! Don’t take it to the bank), which should mean a quick (6 months’ time scale) recovery of some lost production but, longer term, a new apertura and substantial expansion. Libyan production problems are due to the unstable political situation in the country, and might continue for some time. But that is very different from saying they cannot or will not improve, and their impact is likely to dwindle with time. Unpredictable, yes, permanent, unlikely. And finally, the OPEC+ agreement has been a major, if not the major, factor in the recent market stabilization and higher prices, but talk of extending it into the long-term future is somewhat fanciful. Market management by sovereign governments is like herding cats (the title of an article I wrote in 2000), and the recent success, laudable as it may be, is hardly likely to herald a permanent situation. Just as the aggressive Venezuelan production in the 1990s led to a price war in 1998, so future conflict between the Saudis, Iraqis, Iranians, Russians and Venezuelans, over market share is likely to hold down long-term prices. So, even if next week’s meeting in Vienna seems likely to result in higher production from Iraq, Russia, and Saudi Arabia, which will moderate prices somewhat, the factors keeping prices high are likely to persist for the next few quarters. But recall the Chinese proverb, “God, grant me one more boom and I promise not to screw it up.” Oh, wait, that was a 1980s Texas bumper sticker. 