So now, the likely results are starting to trickle in from the Trump Administration's tariff tit-for-tat with countries that make up more than three-quarters of all U.S. trade. GM indicated that layoffs of U.S. workers are likely and that the cars it produces domestically -- China is its biggest market, not the United States -- will cost considerably more because they rely not only on imported steel but imported parts. Harley Davidson has announced it will shift manufacturing from Wisconsin offshore to avoid steep retaliatory tariffs from the European Union, which led the president to a retaliatory tweet. So where are we, from a trade data standpoint? U.S. exports are enjoying their widest and largest growth in seven years, as the Trump Administration pushes ahead with plans to levy wide-ranging tariffs on the imports from largely European and Asian countries, leading to retaliatory tariffs from those same nations. Depending on your outlook, and with apologies to Charles Dickens, this is either best of times or the worst of times to engage in a tariff tit-for-tat. Those who would argue it's the best of times (let's call them ardent Trump supporters and, if they are true to themselves, left-wing Democrats -- neither of whom has yet to fully embrace their unholy alliance) would suggest that if exports suffer from retaliatory tariffs , we're in good enough shape to withstand it. They are right, but not because they have accurately assessed the likely severity of the outcome. That is largely unknown, but there is some speculation out there. But it will be worse than they think, harder on the U.S. economy and, in particular, harder on Trump's core constituency in the "flyover states," where many of our agricultural exports in particular originate. They are right because this country has proven itself resilient in the past, pushing through the Great Recession, the Great Depression, World War II, the Civil War -- you get the idea. They are wrong because the retaliatory tariffs that most of our top trade partners intend to put in place will make life more expensive for us. They will make everything from cell phones to shirts and blouses, cars to furniture, computers to socks, more expensive. The Federal Reserve has for years been trying to get inflation back toward 2%. Their wishes, it appears, have been granted. We will see 2% in the rear-view mirror, if we're not careful, and quickly throw cold water on a strong U.S. economy. Here now, a quick look at leading U.S. exports that are growing rapidly now and that were growing rapidly in 2011, the last time U.S. exports were growing as rapidly. This year, exports are up 8.8% while they were up 19% during the same period of 2011, the first four months of the year. (The most recent data available.) So far this year, U.S. exports of two commodities, oil and gasoline are up more than $5 billion. With oil, 44.2% is going to just two countries, Canada and China. With refined petroleum products, largely gasoline, 30.6% is going to Mexico, which holds an election tomorrow that is not likely to go well for NAFTA negotiators interested in preserving the agreement and exceptionally well for those looking to dismantle it. Another 13.6% was headed to our northern NAFTA partner, Canada. The good news is that these two U.S. exports are not likely to be affected directly by tariffs, though indirect effects are less easy to predict in the highly volatile, politically sensitive global oil markets. Another four exports are growing more than $1 billion each this year. The first one is an odd-ball category in U.S. Census data because there is so little that can be discerned about it. "Low-value shipments" are those valued at less than $2,500, which releases them from a great deal of reporting. They are most likely to be small shipments made through couriers like FedEx, DHL, UPS and others and, almost certainly, involve e-commerce. While we cannot discern what they are, we do know that slightly more than 43% head to our NAFTA partners, Canada and Mexico. It is a relatively safe assumption there are some automotive parts in there. The other three are more interesting, as it pertains to the tariff fight. They are aircraft and parts -- think not only Boeing but a host of other suppliers -- the machines used to make semiconductors and computer chips, and motor vehicles. All three will be deeply and profoundly affected by the tariff back-and-forth. In percentage terms, excluding oil exports -- which are up 92.9% this year, and gasoline, up 23.6% -- the fastest-growing category is the machines used to make semiconductors, up 21.3%. We used to make semiconductors and computer chips in this country, but it quickly became a commodity so we, as we so often do, went to the higher-value product -- the machines that make those chips. Another 14 U.S. exports have increased more than $500 million this year, including vaccines, plasma and other blood fractions; artwork; diamonds; gold; platinum; cotton; coal; scrap iron and steel; motor vehicle parts; and medical devices. Some but not all of these would be ensnared in any tariff fight. Almost all of these exports are largely destined for not only Canada, Mexico and China but Europe -- the very countries that are stepping up with retaliatory tariffs. The 2018 fast-growing exports have some overlap with those in 2011. That year, oil exports -- only relatively recently released by the Obama Administration from national security ground restrictions that limited their export, were up $10.9 billion with another 12 exports up more than $1 billion. On that list were gold, cotton, motor vehicles, wheat, coal, diamonds, soybeans, corn, and aircraft and parts. Another 14 had already increased $500 billion through the first four months of the year, including scrap iron and steel, artwork and medical devices. Many of the fast-growing exports in 2011 remain fast-growing exports in 2018. A tariff fight won't help, even if the United States can withstand whatever bruising to the U.S. economy comes our way. If Trump really wants to pursue this path, he owes it to the American people, as I wrote in previous post, to go on prime-time TV, and not on twitter, to explain to the American people, from the Oval Office, his rationale and call on all of us to be prepared to make sacrifices.