Austrian School economists distrust empirical economics, a skepticism that is partially warranted, partially unwarranted. The Austrian insights are helpful for business planning, even though I don’t endorse them wholeheartedly. The Austrian School of Economics clashed with the German Historical School in the 1880s over methodology. (Both of these “schools” were informal groupings, not organized institutions.) The Germans had used specific historical facts to justify government actions. The Austrians used a purely logical analysis and criticized government involvement in the economy. Later, Austrians criticized empirical economics after socialists asserted that statistical analysis would enable central planning of the economy. These events prompted a century of hostility toward empirical economics. The Austrian School criticism had valid points, but I believe they miss the valuable benefits that business can achieve through quantitative analysis. I’ve spent many years applying both economic theory and statistics to advise business leaders. I’ve also seen misleading statistics. Based on my experience, I would not dismiss all empirical economics in business—but I recommend caution. The Austrians made an excellent point when they said that statistics won’t generate any fundamental conclusions in economics. The tools that I use in business advice begin with theoretically-derived conclusions: higher prices tend to reduce quantities demanded, higher incomes tend to increase quantities demanded, and so forth. In my one personal conversation with Austrian economist and Nobel laureate Friedrich Hayek, he commented that he knew of no important economics conclusion developed by empirical work. I agree at the fundamental level, but only empirical work—looking at data from the real world—can tell you how important different economic forces can be. Here’s what hard-core Austrians miss about empirical analysis: it can really help business decisions. A magazine publisher I’ve worked with knows that blue covers sell better at newsstands than do red covers. People setting prices need insights beyond “higher prices mean fewer units sold;” they need estimates of how much unit sales will drop due to a price increase. Marketing people need to assess the impact of their spending, even if the estimates will never be exact. But Austrian insights can help us interpret statistical results. One criticism they leveled was that the results of an analysis were only valid over the dataset used in the analysis. The magazine conclusion about color of the cover might not apply to a different periodical. Classical statistical theory provides several cautions that echo Austrian concerns. First, the relationship studied may be misestimated. If a line (such as a price-quantity relationship) is estimated to have a slope of 0.5, it might truly be 0.6 with some noise in the data concealing the true relationship. The hypothesis may be mis-specified. For example, the relationship thought to be linear might be some sort of curve instead. Or there may be another variable that’s really making a difference but which was not included in the analysis. More importantly, relationships change over time. Price elasticities estimated last year may not work next year. Austrian economists emphasize that economic transactions result from very complex, multi-factorial processes derived from the decisions of many individuals. Stability of a relationship would be more surprising than change. Finally, users should be cautious about extending the results outside of the range of data studied. A human resource analyst might conclude that employee turnover was not worsened by paying 25 cents under market wage. Extending that conclusion to $5 under market would be very dangerous. The wholesale rejection of empirical work by some Austrian economists is unwarranted. I began my corporate career estimating the long-term growth rate of the economy. A billion dollars’ worth of capital spending would hang on my forecast. That sounds precarious, but there’s simply no denying that long-lived projects may be worthwhile if demand will grow, and not worthwhile if demand fails to grow. Statistical analysis of past relationships won’t give a perfect forecast of future demand, but it’s usually better than guessing. Some of my most useful pieces of work were more about the past than the future. If my company’s sales declined, some executives would want to cut price, while others would want to boost advertising. By teasing out how much of the decline was due to the overall market, how much due to pricing, and how much due to the advertising spend, I helped the company protect its market share cost-effectively. At another company, executives were optimistic about profits in oil exploration. But profits can come from two sources in this industry: owning oil reserves during a time when prices rose, or finding oil worth more than exploration costs. A careful analysis showed new oil reserves were usually not worth the cost of the exploration activity, a weakness masked by rising oil prices in that period. As Boone Pickens said, it was “cheaper to find oil on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange than in the ground.” Real business decisions are best made based on hard facts. The relationships in the economy are so complex, however, that statistical inference is needed to determine magnitudes. Business decisions are more about “how much” than about “whether or not.” How much to spend on fringe benefits, how much training for workers, how much to pay for sales leads. Combining the wisdom of the Austrian School with my own experience in applied economics, I’ve reached two conclusions. First, be very skeptical of any statistical analysis that contradicts your fundamental beliefs. This is the analogue to the Austrian insight that fundamental conclusions cannot be derived from empirical observations. If someone tries to tell you that price does not influence demand, don’t accept the assertion. Senior business leaders have great wisdom from their experience. Although their judgments are not always perfect, they are worthy of respect. Don’t let the nerdy data analyst totally dissuade you from underlying structures you’ve learned. Second, use empirical analysis to help fine tune business processes. The color of your website, the best price to charge, where to spend advertising dollars, are all decisions that should rely heavily on quantitative analysis. But be cautious in interpreting the results, keeping in mind the different types of possible errors. 