Potential demand displacement from electric vehicles could peak oil demand sooner than expected, according to the latest research. In order to achieve global decarbonisation goals however, it’s going to be necessary to address other oil hungry sectors like aviation, shipping and petrochemicals. Research group Carbon Tracker has been arguing for some time that the shift towards electric vehicles could have a more rapid impact that most analysts are projecting. Carbon Tracker’s New Energy Strategist Kingsmill Bond argues that change in the market are likely to follow the development path of energy technologies like wind and solar. Global incumbents from fossil fuel companies to international agencies have continued to under-forecast the growth of renewables year on year for a long time. It could be argued that they are denying the potential threat of new technologies but its far more likely that incumbents have a blind spot when it comes to existential threats. According to Bond, three to four years of current growth rates could result in all incremental growth in energy demand could come from non-fossil fuel sources. That’s a time frame that few incumbents are equipped to manage. Carbon Tracker’s latest report Electric Vehicles: The catalyst to further decarbonisation finds that 2 million barrels per day (mbd) of oil demand could be displaced by EVs in the 2020s. While small in stature, this volume of oil can result in disproportionately large levels of disruption to the industry; it was a 2mbd imbalance in supply/ demand that resulted in the 2014 oil price crash. In a feasible, worst-case scenario for the oil and gas industry, 8mbd of oil demand is at risk from EVs by 2030. The simple fact is that the size of the global EV fleet is the most significant variable determining the potential displacement of oil demand. While EV’s many not be fully sustainable if powered by fossil-fuel electricity, the reality is that oil is rarely used in power generation today. Even if electricity is fossil-fuel powered, it’s the oil industry that will suffer with electrification of the fleet. This will become even more stark as much demand growth is expected to come from the developing world. Such markets are taking significant interest in EVs, if for no other reason that to address the morbidity and mortality implications of road transport related air pollution. According to Carbon Tracker, strongly growing annual mileage per EV due to shared mobility services and other trends mean 1 million barrels per day of oil demand could be displaced by just 48.9 million EVs, all other things remaining equal. Alternatively, if the fuel economy of the remaining internal combustion engine (ICE) fleet improves in a 2°C-compliant scenario 1 million barrels per day of oil is displaced for each 82.5 million EVs, all other things remaining equal Licence to operate is a major factor for any multinational, and the shifting perspective on fossil fuel use was only recently highlighted when the Pope decided to get involved. Pope Francis called on the oil & gas executives to take action on climate change, stating that “with each month that passes, the challenge of energy transition becomes more pressing.” With the oil and gas industry underestimating the speed, scale and impact of future electric vehicle growth the time to act is now.