A round of consolidation in the 2000s, followed by the introduction of fees for services, was supposed to have changed the airline industry for good, improving financial performance for a sector that had accumulated a compound loss since the first Wright Brothers flight. As a result, for the past decade, most of the leading airlines’ earnings calls and investor presentations have included this management recitation: “It’s different this time.” But is it? The current oil price increase is spooking investors, who appear to believe that the airline industry is pretty much the same as it ever was, with no clear ability to pass on costs. American and Delta have both said they each expect to pay about $2 billion more for fuel this year than they spent last year. At the same time, demand for seats remain strong entering the summer travel season. Some airline analysts remain bullish. And JP Morgan analyst Jamie Baker has written that a little-noticed pricing increase by Southwest could benefit the entire industry. In the first six months of 2018, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index rose 1.7%. But American shares fell 27%; Southwest fell 22%, Spirit fell 19%, Alaska fell 18%; JetBlue fell 15%; Delta fell 12% and Hawaiian fell 10%. United, the only winner, gained 3%. Nothing indicates that airline executives have abandoned their belief in the industry’s transformation. Most recently, at American’s June 13th annual meeting, CEO Doug Parker proclaimed, “Our business and our airline have been permanently transformed from the old days. “In the old world, much of what we and other airlines had to do was survive,” he said. “It’s not appropriate anymore.” In a report issued June 28, Citi analyst Kevin Crissey noted that American has been the worst performing airline stock, especially in the last three months, as it declined 28% while the sector fell 8% and the S&P Index rose 4%. Crissey refers to Parker’s view of transformation as a “leap of faith.” Crissey’s survey of investors revealed concerns about high leverage, the industry’s highest exposure to Latin American including Brazil, rising non-fuel costs and tough comparisons on revenue per available seat mile. Parker says regularly that American has higher leverage because it borrowed money to buy aircraft because interest rates have been low. This has given American the youngest fleet among the major airlines, and fuel efficiency is in itself a fuel price hedge. Still, “management really needs to effectively address these issues (plus lowering 2018/19 capacity growth) on the Q2 earnings call,” Crissey wrote. “We don’t hear from any investors who have fully embraced CEO Doug Parker’s leap of faith and evidence of late has been against the thesis.” “Investors want pricing power, earnings growth and [return on investment capital] improvement,” Crissey said. “Definitive actions are needed at these higher fuel prices.” Meanwhile, Stephens Research analyst Jack Atkins wrote Friday that “Investors need to gain confidence in the potential for margin expansion and earnings growth in order for the group to see multiple expansion.” Atkins has overweight ratings on Delta, Southwest and Spirit, with equal weight ratings on American, JetBlue and United. He said the industry is benefitting from strong domestic and global economies, tax reform and robust demand. “While international unit revenue trends continue to outpace those in the domestic market, we are encouraged that pricing actions and fare increases in recent weeks could translate to an improving domestic revenue environment,” Atkins wrote. As for Southwest, JP Morgan's Baker wrote Wednesday that he has spotted a trend that could benefit not only the Dallas-based carrier but also the entire industry. “For over a month now, Southwest has increasingly demonstrated renewed revenue vigor, making substantive changes to advance purchase requirements, adding nonstop exclusions, and – most importantly, in our view – adding time channel restrictions intended to mitigate the impact of {ultra low cost carrier] competition,” Baker wrote. “With shares having underperformed the market by 24% YTD despite only a 6% softening in 2018 consensus EPS estimates, we believe evidence of pricing traction can potentially reverse Southwest's de-rating and boost sagging sentiment,” Baker said. “However, we maintain our neutral rating, as we continue to monitor the competitive threat from ULCCs and believe there’s more compelling risk/reward in legacy airlines.”