Unlike 2017, the global equity markets in 2018 have endured periods of volatility that I expect will only increase in number and scope for the foreseeable future. As the acclaimed market analyst Bob Farrell often said, “it is the markets that make the news; the news does not make the markets.” So what are global markets trying to tell us now? Modern financial history shows us that recessions are preceded by an inverted yield curve (i.e. short-term rates higher than long term rates). If you look at the "global yield curve," the yield on an index of 7-10 year government bonds “has fallen below the yield on an index” of one to three year bonds “for the first time since the first half of 2007,” according to Bloomberg. This does not portend well for the synchronized global recovery narrative, as it looks instead to be warning of a global slowdown. In the U.S., the yield curve has merely flattened as we appear to be the last woman standing. Looking at the market signals over the past month, cyclical stocks have begun to rollover while defensives have started to outperform. Furthermore, tariffs could speed up a prospective recession here as these are essentially tax increases that will likely neutralize the tax cuts that were put in place earlier this year. These tariffs lead to trade wars, which I believe are (at best) a zero-sum game, as unwinding global supply chains takes substantial resources and costly time from production. Also, the day-to-day uncertainty breeds paralysis, as management teams try to determine if/when action will follow rhetoric. I expect this trade manipulation will have a significant negative impact on areas like the tech sector, which has the most overseas revenue exposure of any sector and the widest disconnect between fundamentals and valuation. Despite this disconnect, tech has been a perceived area of refuge, which I believe is beginning to shift. In fact, the best performing sector in the second quarter was energy (the outperformance almost twofold that of tech) – a sign perhaps that the pendulum has finally begun to swing. Additionally, the current backdrop is already one of rising inflation, as higher input costs are being absorbed in peaking corporate margins. Asset inflation (with the prior help of quantitative easing) has flatlined, as the baton has been passed to the inflation of goods and labor. Essentially, higher trade barriers will just magnify these inflationary pressures. As always, there will be unintended consequences of all this, as Main Street will be the one that suffers. While wages may increase, tariffs could lead to job losses just as the cost of living continues to climb – all of which could raise the specter of the misery index (i.e. index of unemployment plus the annual inflation rate), which we haven’t experienced in decades. We are now living in an environment with higher oil prices, a stronger U.S. dollar, and a Fed that continues to raise interest rates – or what I would call the trifecta for turbulence. This trifecta has led to a global squeeze of liquidity, which is why we see signs of stress with emerging markets imploding, European high yield corporate spreads widening, and half of the world’s largest bank stocks (those considered "systemically important") down double digits so far this year. As another potential sign of stress (and a direct result of our weaponizing of trade), the renminbi “weakened by 3.3% against the dollar in June, the worst single-month decline since China established its foreign exchange market in 1994,” according to the Financial Times. The antidote for all of this is a significant degree of defensiveness. Maintaining abundant liquidity is essential to preserve capital and capture inevitable future investment opportunities, coupled with owning unloved, high quality, value-oriented dividend paying companies. History has always favored liquidity when there is substantial leverage in the system. Unfortunately, as Warren Buffet has said, “What we learn from history is that people don’t learn from history.”