The energy segment of the U.S. news media has dedicated a lot of time in recent months to discussing the current boom in oil and natural gas production, exports and consumption, and the benefits the country derives from these crucial natural energy resources. All too often, though, we completely miss the third leg of this petroleum-based stool, which is our equally amazing abundance of natural gas liquids (NGLs) and the similar boom taking place in that segment of the industry. A new report published yesterday by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) puts the scale of this boom in somewhat amazing detail. But before we get into those details, let's review what NGLs - the component petroleum liquids that are separated out of most natural gas production streams - actually are. Put simply, there are five such liquid components contained in any typical "wet" natural gas stream: These NGLs are separated out at natural gas processing plants and then moved to various markets centers where they are applied to a broad variety of energy and manufacturing uses, including: This list could go on and on. Once the liquids are removed from a gas stream, what remains is a pure Methane stream, and that is the "natural gas" that is commonly used for power generation and home heating in communities that have local pipeline distribution infrastructure. As the DOE report unsurprisingly details, the major driver behind the current boom in natural gas and NGLs is the mammoth Marcellus Shale resource located across much of Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio. (The Marcellus also lies underneath a broad swath of Southwestern New York, but the Cuomo Administration continues to prevent its citizens from sharing the massive economic wealth and lower utility bills this resource is bringing to these other states.) The Report projects that, driven mainly by the NGLs-rich Marcellus - and to a lesser extent, the Utica Shale - natural gas production in the Northeastern U.S. will expand by 200 percent for the 10-year period from 2013 through 2023. That expansion will, combined with massive new investments in processing and manufacturing infrastructure, drive a whopping 700 percent expansion in the region's natural gas plant liquids production over that same time period. Now, that's a boom. While the raw numbers are huge, none of this is really surprising given the findings of a study released in March by the folks at IHS Market, titled "Benefits, Risks, and Estimated Project Cash Flows: Ethylene Project Located in the Shale Crescent USA Versus the US Gulf Coast." Although much of the energy media's focus this year has remained on the similarly amazing production boom going on in the Permian Basin, the LNG exports boom centered along the Gulf Coast, and the rapid expansion of crude oil exports being facilitated mostly by the Port of Corpus Christi, this IHS Market report details some several strong market advantages related to NGLs that the "Shale Crescent" of the Northeast currently enjoys: The IHS Markit report also projects that, if the Marcellus region were a country, it would currently rank third globally in natural gas production, behind only the rest of the U.S. and Russia. Because of this amazing abundance, China recently executed a Memorandum of Understanding with West Virginia to invest up to $84 billion over 20 years in chemical manufacturing and shale-related projects. So yes, there is indeed a big oil boom taking place in the Permian Basin, but it is far from the only petroleum-based energy boom driving the U.S. economy today. The Shale Crescent of the Northeast is enjoying a big boom of its own, and it's only going to get bigger in the years to come.