When we look at the movement in the price of oil on the monthly, weekly and daily charts we don't need to know what the news about oil is. If you're knowledgeable about technical analysis, it's not necessary to analyze and interpret events in the market -- all we're doing is identifying the trend and making sure we know where previous strong buying or selling kicked in: the support and resistance levels. Our read on the oil market is only about price, where it's going and where it's been. Here's the monthly chart so you can see the context for the new 2-year high that just hit: The price of oil remains below the downtrend line established by connecting the 2008 high with the 2013 and 2014 highs. In other words, it's been higher priced. A close above that red dotted downtrend line might indicate a trend reversal, but we're not there yet. Oil has a long way to go before taking out that high of 150 a barrel in 2008. The peek above the Ichimoku cloud is a bullish technical indicator. Here's how it looks on the weekly chart: Oil has been trending steadily upward for more than 2 years now. It's managed to stay above the trend line that connects the early 2016 low with the mid-2017 dip. Price remains above the Ichimoku cloud as well. At about 75 per barrel we're halfway to the old 150 peak. Here's the daily chart: On this chart, you can see that every time the price of oil dips significantly, buyers come in and take it higher. This has been taking place steadily now for the past 9 months. Price keeps making it back above the Ichimoku cloud and above the up trend line that connects the lows. To examine the movement from a slightly different perspective, here's the point-and-figure chart where up closes show as o's and down closes show as x's: From 27 a barrel to 74 a barrel in little more than 2 years -- that's quite a move, especially for a commodity as widely followed as West Texas Intermediate crude oil. In the technical analysis textbooks, this pattern -- an ascending triple-top breakout as of June 27th -- is considered bullish, even considering the substantial gains already in place since 2016. This last chart is the monthly pattern for the Standard and Poor's Oil and Gas Exploration and Production ETF: This ETF shows the collective price of several stocks involved in the exploration and production of oil and gas. No new highs here on a monthly basis, not even close. This seems odd since we've got a 2-year high in oil and the big stock indices are not that far from their all time highs. I do not hold positions in these investments. No recommendations are made one way or the other. If you're an investor, you'd want to look much deeper into each of these situations. You can lose money trading or investing in stocks. Always do your own independent research, due diligence and seek professional advice from a licensed investment advisor.