This holiday week gasoline prices in the US are averaging $2.86 per gallon. According to AAA these will be the highest gasoline prices over the July 4thholiday that Americans have seen in four years. However, prices are, on average, 11 cents lower than they were over the Memorial Day holiday this year. Many are blaming the overall higher prices this spring and summer on President Trump’s decision to reinstate sanctions on Iran’s oil industry . Calls are mounting for the President to release crude oil from the United States Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) in order to tamp down on oil prices. Some even fear political ramifications for the Republican Party in the November midterm elections if prices rise further. Most of the gasoline price increase can be traced to rising crude oil prices, caused by a combination of factors. These include production outages in Canada, Libya and Venezuela. The new Iran policy is also a factor. Oil traders took the State Department seriously when it recently announced that, unlike during the Obama administration, it would not grant any waivers to countries importing Iranian oil. Iran currently exports a little under 2.5 million barrels per day. Removing that much oil from the market over the next several months would certainly push oil prices higher. The Trump administration has been trying to encourage other oil producers – specifically Saudi Arabia – to increase production in order to prevent a price spike. At last month’s OPEC and non-OPEC producers meeting, Saudi Arabia and Russia agreed that producing countries with spare capacity would increase production, but remained non-committal on the exact amounts. Prices did fall after this announcement but rose when the State Department announced that it expects all customers of Iranian oil to cut their imports to zero by November. This past Saturday, the President tweeted that he had spoken with King Salman of Saudi Arabia and that Saudi Arabia had agreed to increase oil production by 2 million barrels to help alleviate high oil prices. This tweet caused quite a stir because an increase of this scale would bring Saudi oil production up to an astounding 12 million barrels per day. The CEO of the Saudi national oil company, Aramco, says that Aramco is capable of producing 12 million barrels per day, but the company has never produced at that rate and many question its ability to produce that much oil or to sustain that level of production for any meaningful amount of time. As it turned out, the President’s tweet was not entirely accurate. Both the Saudi government and the White House clarified the content of the phone call. Apparently, King Salman reaffirmed that Saudi Arabia does have spare capacity of 2 million barrels per day but plans to increase oil production in coordination with its producing nation partners and as necessary to maintain market stability. The international crude oil benchmark (Brent) fell about 2% after hearing this news, but the U.S. crude oil benchmark (WTI) remained steady at around $75 per barrel. In fact, oil markets barely seemed to react when a State Department official announced that in fact the U.S. would consider leniency towards countries that were reducing imports of Iranian oil on a case-by-case basis. Even with oil prices in the mid-$70 per barrel range, there is no indication that drastic measures like a major SPR release are warranted at this point. Gasoline prices are still within reasonable levels and, according to Bloomberg, gasoline stockpiles in the United States increased by 2.9% in June. Refineries are running at record rates and there is enough gasoline in storage to cover 25.4 days of demand. Patrick DeHaan, head of petroleum analysis at GasBuddy, echoed this sentiment in a recent interview. Many of the outages that are keeping prices high right now are temporary and will be resolved. Summer demand for crude oil is always higher than the rest of the year, and as the autumn and winter months approach oil prices are likely to fall. Maybe just in time for the election.