It seems like only yesterday that “it came from the internet” was a snarky comment about the reliability of a fact, and so it seems surprising that so many try to parse the meaning and/or truth of President Trump’s tweets. He is obviously just throwing off remarks without giving them much thought, and readers should not assume precision in either content or intention. For one thing, he’s not an academic who needs to source every fact, nor is twitter a refereed journal. Think of it like guys in a bar and attribute the same degree of seriousness to anything you read there. (Well, of course, my tweets are gold.) So it was a little surprising this weekend to see the (oil-specific) Twitterverse go bananas over a tweet from the President claiming he asked King Salman of Saudi Arabia to increase oil production by 2 mb/d, and that the king agreed. Within 24 hours, this had been modified to a request for additional oil supply and assurances that the market would be fully supplied. Pretty much where we were pre-tweet. Those with long memories will not be surprised that the U.S. is simultaneously tightening oil markets and complaining about tight oil markets. World Oil contributing editor Anas Alhajji remarked in the early years of the millennium on the way the Iran Libya Sanctions Act was taking supply off the market, even as the U.S. government decried rising oil prices. I always say that economics doesn’t explain short-term oil price moves, but an economist did. John Maynard Keynes, after losing a fortune on the stock market, famously observed that the economics don’t determine market prices, but what traders think the economics are. Will recent statements from the U.S. and Saudi Arabia change the views of traders is the operative question, not what will King Salman (or President Trump) do? Most important, traders are likely to believe that the Saudis now attribute high oil prices to be, in part, due to the re-imposition of sanctions on Iran and thus think that the Saudi government, in support of Trump’s moves against that country, will try to assist by ensuring the new sanctions don’t cause oil prices to soar. But can they? Already, some have worried that higher Saudi production means less Saudi spare capacity, and those fears can mean higher prices, regardless of the actual supply/demand b We have been here before. During the Iranian Revolution, the Saudis raised production and the market was roughly in balance, but prices soared anyway. Partly, this was fear that the Iranian Revolution would spread, or that border tensions between Iran and Iraq would erupt into war, cutting supply from both countries. (It did, but not until the fall of 1980.) Everyone from governments to car drivers responded by hoarding: the U.S. took oil off the market to add to the SPR, while other nations demand oil companies raise their minimum inventory levels. Oil companies ceased to sell oil on the open market, and drivers topped off their tanks. Millions of barrels a day went into storage for a lengthy period, which worsened the post-1980 oil market slump. So, again, the Saudis will be torn between not wanting to create a glut on the market, and the desire to convince traders not to bid prices up even further. This is a fairly narrow tightrope shrouded in fog (block that metaphor!) and it might be beyond the ability of the Saudis to manage. Perhaps the optimal strategy would be to produce now, at high prices, and cut back later when inventories rise. Sell high, stockpile low is a great fiscal strategy, but devilishly hard to achieve. So, aggressive moves by the Saudis to restrain prices should succeed, but if they try to avoid creating an inventory overhang as in 1978, 1980,…,2014, then prices will tend to rise, at least in the short term (next few months). If they raise production vey publicly, prices are unlikely to fall (no surplus capacity), but if the Iranians manage to continue selling oil at pre-U.S. unilateral sanctions, prices could be notably lower towards the fourth quarter. The impact of aggressive Saudi production on other producers in the Vienna Agreement would be negative, that is, to encourage them to raise production willy-nilly. (That’s a petroleum engineering term.) However, only in the case of Iraq and Russia are likely to be able to take action, and the concern is less that they would add several hundred thousands of barrels per day to the market, but that expansion plans would be accelerated. Which could make the next effort by producers to restrain supply that much more difficult. For now, prices have a more obvious floor than ceiling, but watch the Saudi response if prices rise another $5/barrel or so. 