Saudi Arabia is back in control of the oil market again. It’s the “swing” oil producer, ready to raise production to "stabilize" oil prices. That’s according to reports that were circulated by both Reuters and the Saudi Gazette over the weekend. The Kingdom’s return to its old role didn’t happen by accident. It has been part of a plan that dates back to September 2016, when rising oil output by American frackers began crashing oil prices. As we wrote back then, Saudi Arabia devised a plan to confuse oil traders and investors. That’s the impression one would get by listening to Saudi Arabia’s new oil minister back then. He was talking oil markets up one day, down the next day, and up the day after. That kind of talk is part of a broader game Saudi Arabia played to master the oil market. It’s a game that started back in the 1970s when the Kingdom succeeded America as the world’s largest oil producer. And it played it in different ways. Sometimes as a “swing” producer, satisfying occasional gaps opened up by production shortfalls by major oil producers to stabilize the oil prices. That’s what happened in the 1970s. The Kingdom filled the gap created by the decline in US oil production; the 1978-80 gaps created by the Iranian revolution; and the 1990-1 gaps opened up by the Iraq-Kuwait war. Other times, Saudi Arabia played the game as a warrior, using oil as a weapon against countries that opposed its Middle East policies. Like in the 1973-74 oil embargo, which was an attempt to punish those countries that sided with Israel, including its own “friend” the US. In 2015-16, Saudi Arabia played the game of ruthless competitor by refusing to cut oil production and fill in a glut in the oil market caused by weak oil demand and a larger production by the rise of American frackers and the return of Iran to the oil market. But there is a big difference this time around. America, not Saudi Arabia, is the world’s largest oil producer. This means that unless Saudi Arabia manages to drive every single American fracker off the oil market, it can no longer effectively play any of these three games and drive oil prices higher ahead of the Aramco IPO. That’s why Saudi Arabia, in my opinion, developed a new game in September 2016-- to confuse oil traders and investors before it made its next move. Ie, getting OPEC and non-OPEC countries to cut oil output at a time traders would be complacent about an over-supplied oil market. Actually, this isn’t the first time Saudi Arabia has played this game. Back in 1997-99 the Kingdom allegedly engineered this sort of confusion, taking the oil market for a wild ride: a big decline in early 1997 was followed by a big jump in late 1997, which lasted until early 2000. Apparently, Saudi Arabia’s game of confusing oil markets worked back then, and it’s working now. For an obvious reason, the lack of accurate data regarding Saudi Arabia’s oil production. “There is a persistent lack of agreement among estimates made by Saudi Aramco, the International Energy Agency, the US EIA/DOE and BP ’s annual Statistical Review of World Energy of the amount of Saudi Arabian crude produced each year from 1988 to 2004,” writes Matthew R. Simmons in Twilight In the Desert (2005). “The variances between these sources highlight the uncertainty about the volume of oil that Saudi Arabia produces.” Source: Finance.yahoo.com 6/29/2018