With the holiday weekend quickly approaching, rising gas prices will impact each and every one of us. Oil prices spiked on the news of the OPEC deal, rising by more than 3% on Tuesday, June 26 with WTI being back above $70 per barrel for the first time in over a month. This does not bode well for the Trump administration or everyday consumers of gasoline. The U.S. Energy Information Administration stated that, “Historically, retail gasoline prices tend to gradually rise in the spring and peak in late summer when people drive more frequently.” Increased demand with the same amount of supply drives up prices and with the demand for gasoline reaching highs in summer months, the prices have followed suit. A change had to be made to stop the rising prices of oil globally, and OPEC seemed to have an answer.    On Friday, June 22, OPEC tried to offset the rise in price and agreed to increase production to pump 1 million extra barrels of crude oil per day. This move should have helped contain the recent rise in global energy prices but instead had the unanticipated effect of a price increase. The production increase ended up being 600,000 barrels instead of the anticipated 1 million, which was shy of how much the market was expecting. According to the Wall Street Journal, this difference is an outcome of some OPEC members being unable to sufficiently boost crude oil production such as Venezuela, Iran and Iraq. The OPEC deal is on investors minds, but they must not forget the impact of the U.S. opting out of the Iran deal in early May. On May 23, Democratic senate leader Chuck Schumer stated that President Trump’s decision to pull out of the Iran deal has led to higher oil prices and have directly hurt middle and lower class consumers. On Tuesday June 26, the U.S. State Department urged companies to cut Iranian crude oil imports to zero by November 4, backed by the threat of U.S. sanctions. The combination of the OPEC deal and Iran sanctions have driven oil to recent highs.  On the back of oil hitting new levels, we have listed some of our top energy stocks. We believe these three stocks have strong fundamentals. Two of the stocks, Penn Virginia and Carrizo, have the potential to benefit from rising energy prices. Delek, as a refiner, can make a profit regardless of the volatility in the oil industry and is a good hedge if the price of oil retreats going into the fall months.  The foundation of our recommendations is to identify companies that perform best and worst on the collective basis of value, growth, EPS revisions, profitability, and LT momentum. The CressCap systematic trading model gathers data daily on 6,500 companies globally and assigns academic grades (A - F) for each financial metric. These grades are scored relative to its region/sector. Carrizo Oil & Gas, Inc. (CRZO-US): Carrizo Oil & Gas, Inc. is a Houston-based energy company actively engaged in the exploration, development, and production of oil and gas from resource plays located in the United States. This company is a buy based on its financial metrics, backed by strong fundamentals. The strengths of this stock include its impressive EPS revisions grade of A-, along with its strong performance in growth with the 2 year forward EPS growth rate crushing sector performance at 281.78% compared to sector 1.86%. The momentum is a given a CressCap grade of A, with a notable performance in its long term momentum far outperforming the sector at 70.24% to 18.14%. In a recent interview with CNBC, Carrizo CEO Chip Johnson stated that in the past year, as of June 2018, Carrizo has brought down its leverage to 2.6x and predicts that it will be down to 2x in early 2019. He also emphasized that the Chinese ramping up sanctions about trading with the United States does not worry him, because the world always needs oil, and if he doesn’t sell it to China, it will sell in Europe. By moving the company to Texas, it faces less trouble with regulations as it previously had because it is not in populated area. The outlook on the stock is favorable, with a YTD performance up 30.87%. We view this stock as a good opportunity in the energy sector. Delek US Holdings, Inc. (DK-US) Delek US Holdings, Inc. is a Tennessee based downstream energy company with assets in petroleum refining, logistics, convenience store retailing, asphalt and renewables. The value of this company is favorable with an A- ranking. The P/Sales ratio suggests that the stock is trading cheaply at .50 compared to the sector at 2.56. Financial analysts have a promising outlook on this company, with EPS revisions grade of A-, with a conclusion that the EPS revisions are increasing favorably. The poor profitability score of this stock is due to its less than exciting performance in both EBIT and operating margin, but in our eyes, this is offset by its impressive performance in both ROI and ROE, both producing CressCap grades of A-. This company has as great value, accompanied by strong fundamentals, and should be viewed as a great opportunity in the energy sector to investors. Penn Virginia Corporation (PVAC-US): The Penn Virginia Corporation is an independent oil and gas company engaged in the onshore exploration, development and production of oil, NGLs and natural gas. The company is in the 94% sector percentile and its EPS revisions continue to be revised higher for FY1 and FY2. CressCap currently has a buy recommendation on this stock, accompanied by an A+ grade and impressive financial metrics. Profitability for this stock looks strong, with both the operating and EBIT margin outperforming the sector at 64.38 to 44.85 and 34.64 to 12.36 respectively. The momentum of this stock looks promising, with the short-term, mid-term and long-term price momentum all outperforming the sector, receiving a CressCap grade of A or higher. The current P/E FY1 ratio for this stock is 9.18 compared to the sector at 16.71, which suggests that the stock is very undervalued. The 2 year forward sales growth rate is given a CressCap grade of A+, reflecting the company’s impressive growth, outperforming the sector, 256.67% to 34.29% respectively. The CressCap grade of A+ for momentum is also notable with the price increase of the stock at 134.81% over the past 52 weeks. The company’s strong financial metrics, coupled with its continued increase in price, make this stock a good buy in the eyes of financial analysts. Written By: Steven Cress (steven.cress@cresscap.com)  For additional information, feel free to send questions to info@cresscap.com or view our website www.cresscap.com. Please click here to view CressCap Investment Research’s full disclaimer. 