At the year’s midpoint, many investors are getting nervous, what with talk of trade wars and the like. The sage Lewis Walker, a financial planning and investment strategist at Capital Insight Group in Peachtree Corners, Ga., looks at the various dynamics at work on the stock market. One conclusion: Don’t believe market predictions: Larry Light: Market forecasts can be way off, right? Lewis Walker: The folly of past prognostications in remarkable. The New York Times, on Oct. 31, 2016, quoted the eminent MIT economist Simon Johnson, who “posited that Mr. Trump’s presidency would ‘likely cause the stock market to crash and plunge the world into recession.’” The Chicken Littles of Wall Street and academia called it wrong. The sky did not fall and U.S. market averages rose to unprecedented heights. Both the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&P 500 Index notched all-time highs on January 26, 2018. Both indexes closed below their record highs at second quarter’s end. Propelled by big tech, the Nasdaq Composite Index hit an all-time high on June 20, 2018, closing down from that record at quarter’s end.    Light: But aren’t there market forces to be wary of? Walker: There are cross trends that can weigh on markets. First, the Big Five tech giants have been leading the parade—Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Netflix. These five stocks are distorting the S&P 500 Index as passive investing followers pour in money, ignoring soaring valuations. The very large capitalization companies in the tech sector have an outsized influence on the index. While the index contains 500 stocks, based on capitalization weightings, a small handful of soaring growth stocks at the top are eroding concepts of diversification. Light: What about the role of the Fed? Walker: Throughout the recovery from the 2007-2008 market thumping, inflation has been running below the 2% annual target set by the Federal Reserve. With our economy expanding, core inflation, excluding food and energy, is now up 2.2% as of May 2018 year-over-year. All- items inflation, including food and energy, necessities that impact your buying power, clocked in at 2.8% for the same time frame. When you combine inflation numbers with the low rate of unemployment, Mr. Market worries that the Federal Reserve may be more aggressive in raising interest rates to restrain inflation, biting the hot stock market that President Trump has been touting in defense of his tax-cut and deregulation efforts. Those initiatives certainly improved the bottom line of all manner of businesses, helping to fuel the stock market run. Tax cuts put more money in the pockets of consumers, bolstering consumer spending and confidence. Light: What about threats to all this good news? Walker: As to potential warning signs, emerging market stocks and currencies are being crushed by rising crude oil prices and a stronger U.S. dollar. Chinese stocks ended the first half of 2018 as the worst performer among the world’s major markets, slipping into bear market territory. Trade tensions are worrying traders globally and are likely to restrain American market progress until some measure of calming resolution. Historically low interest rates prompted borrowers to leverage up in droves. Rising interest rates will constrain new borrowing and cause stress for debtors unprepared for higher rates. Light: How should investors position themselves? Walker: Investors with ample and secure paychecks are likely to ride out any potential recessionary downturn. Diversification strategies should include U.S. mid-cap and small-cap firms, which in general are less sensitive to a rising dollar and trade tensions, especially firms focused largely on the domestic market. Retirees dependent on a paycheck or playcheck from their portfolio should have a sufficient low-risk to no-risk reserves so as to ride out any downturn in equities. We do expect market volatility to continue, potentially accelerating on declining trading volume as traders head for the Hamptons or some other venue to beat the heat. The economy is doing just fine, but on Wall Street good news often translates into bad news as the tea leaves get cloudy. 