Back in April, we wrote on article on top stocks under $10. This proved to be a very rewarding experience. We are re-introducing an old concept of buying stocks below a $10 stock price. Typically, it is hard to find companies possessing the collective financial traits we seek, such as the attractive characteristics of value, growth, strong EPS revisions, profitability and strong momentum. Fortunately, the power of filtering big data along with our systematic trading model has helped CressCap to identify five stocks under $10 that possess the above core fundamental metrics which we desire. The foundation of our recommendations is to identify companies that perform best and worst on the collective basis of value, growth, EPS revisions, profitability, and LT momentum. The CressCap systematic trading model gathers data daily on 6,500 companies globally and assigns academic grades (A - F) for each financial metric. These grades are scored relative to its region/sector.     Cerus Corporation (CERS-US) Cerus Corporation is a biomedical products company focused in the field of blood transfusion safety. This is a standout stock in the healthcare sector, given a rank of 26 out of 365 companies. Its positive performance can be seen over the last 52 weeks with the price increasing by 165.74%. This stock has a CressCap grade of A+ and a buy recommendation. The long term price momentum looks favorable for the company, far outperforming the sector at 156.10% to 17.86% accompanied with an A+ grade. The EPS revisions are encouraging for Cerus with the stock outperforming the sector with an A rank. William ‘Obi’ Greenman, Cerus’ president and chief executive officer is very optimistic about the company’s future. In the 2018 quarter one results, he stated product revenue for the first quarter of 2018 was $13.6 million, compared to $7.0 million during the same period in 2017. This is a growing company, and the stock is a good place to put your money.  Costamare Inc. (CMRE-US) Costamare Inc. is one of the world’s leading owners and providers of containerships for charter. The Company has 44 years of history in the international shipping industry and a fleet of 73 containerships. The stock is recommended as a buy based on our quant model and is also supported by technical indicators and fundamental analysis. The stock offers great value compared to its competitors in the industrial sector, with EV/EBITDA of 6.64 relative to a sector ratio of 11.82 and a CressCap P/B and P/CF grade of A+. Profitability for this stock looks strong, with both the operating and EBIT margin outperforming the sector at 64.56 to 14.65 and 39.32 to 9.19 respectively. The short, mid and long-term price momentums are impressive for the stock, each receiving a CressCap grade of A or better. DHT Holdings, Inc. (DHT-US) Our next recommendation with a price under $10 is DHT Holdings. Double Hull Tankers, Inc. is an independent crude oil tanker company, whose fleet trades internationally and consists of crude oil tankers in the VLCC and Aframax segments. All five metrics of value, growth, EPS revisions, profitability and momentum have a CressCap rank of B- or above, showing us that this is a favorable stock in the industrials sector. The 2 year forward EPS growth rate of this stock is crushing the sector at 435.89% to that of the sector at 30.99%. The P/B ratio of this stock at 0.72x compared to the sector 2.49x which shows that the stock is undervalued. Both the short and mid term price momentum are given an A+ grade, reinforcing the positive momentum of this growing company. The outlook on the stock is favorable, with its YTD performance up 30.50%. We view this stock as a good opportunity for under $10. MEI Pharma, Inc. (MEIP-US) MEI Pharma, Inc. is a San Diego-based oncology drug development company with a pipeline of three clinical-stage drug candidates and a management team with proven oncology drug development experience. This company has a regional universe rank of 53 out of 1,928 companies and a healthcare sector rank 8 out of 365 companies. The stock is recommended as a buy based on our quant model and is also supported by technical indicators and fundamental analysis. A market cap change of 213.97% relative to a sector change of 33.87%, means the momentum of the stock shows promise. The P/B ratio of 2.85 beats sector performance of 5.25, which suggests that the stock is of good value. As of March 31, 2018, the company had $36.2 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, with no outstanding debt. This company has strong financial metrics, and should be seen as an investment opportunity to investors. R1 RCM Inc (RCM-US) R1 RCM Inc is the last company on our list. R1 RCM Inc is a leading provider of revenue cycle services and physician advisory services to healthcare providers. This Chicago based company is seen as a solid choice for investors looking to put their money in stocks less than $10. In first quarter 2018 results, the company reported that they generated net services revenue of $147.3 million, up $60.4 million compared to the same period last year. This stock is seen as having good value while trading cheaply with a P/S ratio of 1.97 compared to that of the sector at 6.99, given an A- CressCap grade. Another strength of this stock is its momentum, standing out in the healthcare sector with both mid and long term price momentum given a Cresscap grade of A. The price change also looks favorable, with it increasing 131.47% in the past 52 weeks.  Written By: Steven Cress (steven.cress@cresscap.com) and Alison Geary (alison.geary@cresscap.com) For additional information, feel free to send questions to info@cresscap.com or view our website www.cresscap.com. Please click here to view CressCap Investment Research’s full disclaimer.   