The inverted yield curve is something to worry about big-time, because it has a viciously accurate record predicting recessions. And that’s of concern for all investors, particularly those in equities, because recessions always give stock prices a pasting. Since 1955, by the San Francisco Fed’s count, a negative curve—where short rates are higher than long rates—has forecasted all nine U.S. recessions, which kicked in some 18 months later on average. There was just one false positive, in the mid-1960s. Right now, about a third of a percentage point separates the two-year Treasury from the 10-year. Thus the curve is flat. The 10-year note has had a tough time pushing past the 3.0% level. Meanwhile, shorter rates will climb as the Federal Reserve keeps up its campaign to boost them. But here’s a neat little secret about inverted yield curves and stocks: Stock prices have a pretty decent record of continuing to climb even after the yield curve inverts (See chart.) “An inverted yield curve is not a sell signal,” said Ryan Detrick, senior market strategist at LPL Financial. “Recessions aren’t automatically around the corner.” And it takes a while for them to arrive after the inversion, during which time stocks often rally. Take the biggest, baddest recession of the postwar era, the Great Recession of 2008-09. The yield curve inverted in January 2006, and spent much of the following two years with the two-year obligation yielding a tiny bit above the 10-year note. The two-year’s yield only began dropping in 2007 because the Fed, worried about the gathering housing crisis, began lowering short rates. Anyway, until the recession began at the beginning of 2008, the S&P 500 advanced by 14.7%. Why? Well, the whistle-past-the-graveyard conventional wisdom of stock traders in those days was that the housing problem, namely a mounting sea of defaults, could be “contained.” What few saw was how thoroughly the many lousy home loans had contaminated the entire financial system, through securitizing them. Let’s go back 40 years and review the dramas surrounding the curve and the market. The late 1970s and early 1980s markets were distorted by rampant inflation. Further skewing things was the ascension of Paul Volcker to head the Fed in August 1979. He jacked up the federal funds rate (the benchmark for short rates) to 21% from an already-high 11%. The results were back-to-back recessions starting in 1980 and 1981. Yet from inversion to recession, the market had risen 9.9% and 4.3% respectively. The inversion that commenced in December 1988 came amid the decline and fall of junk bonds, which had been riding high during the LBO era. Also roiling the waters was the savings and loan crisis, a precursor to what went down some 15 years later. Here, some 1,000 lenders failed, due to imprudent lending. Another factor pushing the nation into recession in 1990 was Iraqi strongman Saddam Hussein's invading Kuwait, which triggered fears of an oil-price surge. No matter for the stock market. Amid this turbulence, it jumped 28.5%. Then came the dot-com bust. Inflation had ticked up owing to the robust economy of that time, which the tech surge was a major part of. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, who had warned of “irrational exuberance” in stocks, put on the monetary brakes, sending short rates up some two percentage points. But the crashing to the Internet stocks was a big blow to many stock-momentum-chasing Americans, and a recession slammed the nation. The market, however, enjoyed an OK, if unspectacular run of 6.1% while waiting for the downturn to hit. Stock investors always should invest for the long-term and not panic when bear markets inevitably come along. Still, it’s comforting to know that, even when the eerie warning of an inverted yield curve is sounded, a stock market rout doesn’t follow right away.