The evidence is mounting that the ambitious reform drive launched by Saudi Arabia's powerful crown prince Mohamed bin Salman (MBS) in April 2016 – known as Vision 2030 – may be running into trouble. Among the warning signs are a sharp fall in international investment over the past year, rising unemployment among Saudis (even as more foreign workers are leaving the country), a privatisation programme that is showing few signs of life and an economy that is struggling to grow. The sharp slowdown in inward investment is perhaps the most dramatic signal that not all is well in the kingdom’s economy. Recently released data by the UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) showed that net foreign direct investment (FDI) into Saudi Arabia last year amounted to just $1.4bn, down from $7.5bn a year earlier. On top of that there are growing doubts about whether the much-discussed initial public offering (IPO) of oil giant Saudi Aramco will ever happen. The government initially targeted a valuation of $2 trillion and a listing at some point in 2018. Most analysts have described the target valuation as unachievable and the listing date keeps being pushed back, with many now suspecting it may not happen at all.    If the stock market listing is indeed abandoned, it will represent a blow to the reputation of the crown prince, who is closely associated with the idea. “MBS placed the Aramco IPO front and centre of his Vision 2030 reform plans and so, if it is scrapped, this would represent a major loss of face and add to his growing list of botched policies,” said Jason Tuvey, Middle East economist for Capital Economics, in a research note published on July 12. Beyond the Aramco IPO, there is a broader privatisation drive which is due to raise some $11bn for the government by 2020, but there are doubts within the investor community about the speed at which that is moving forward. The aims of diversifying the economy away from oil and gas and expanding the role of the private sector – twin targets which lie at the heart of the reform drive - are also struggling to be achieved. The economy slipped into recession last year but is expected to return to growth this year, albeit at the fairly modest level of 1.7%, according to estimates from the IMF. But that return to growth is mainly down to an uptick in oil prices and output which, in turn, is enabling an increase in government spending, according to Capital Economics. In other words, the economy is as reliant as ever on oil revenues being channelled into public spending. The non-oil economy is growing, but at a slow place. Riyadh-based Jadwa Investment is forecasting non-oil GDP to grow by 1.4% this year, compared to 1% in 2017. Even here, the non-government sector is faring relatively poorly. The investment firm is forecasting non-oil private sector growth of 1.1%, this year, up from 0.7% last year. It is certainly not all bad news. The reforms that have been pushed through to date have led to some important changes which should help the economy. The opening up of the entertainment industry for example will create jobs for young locals and lifting the ban on women drivers makes it far easier for millions more people to enter the workforce. Reforms to the financial markets have led indexing firms to bring the Saudi Stock Market (Tadawul) into the mainstream of the emerging markets universe which should help to draw in many billions of investment dollars. A recently published draft law on public-private partnerships could also herald more foreign investment. The government has also made some much-needed moves to diversify its revenue sources, introducing a range of new taxes and fees. Oil revenues still accounted for 63% of total government revenues in 2017, according to Sama, the Saudi central bank, but that proportion is falling. There are still plenty of supporters of the crown prince and his reform initiatives and some suggest that it will take time for their full effect to be felt. "Saudis have to be more vocal and more confident… It’s going to take some time before we realise the benefits,” said Hussain Shobokshi, a Saudi businessman and media commentator while appearing at the BMG Economic Forum, a Saudi investment event held in London on July 11. “With more effective communication strategy, saying and repeating and insisting that the country has truly moved forward, it should pay back in a year or two.” There is no doubt some truth to that. The sort of economic transformation that the Saudi authorities have embarked upon is complex and multi-faceted and it certainly takes time to turn around an economy. But the crown prince himself has set the challenging timetable the government is working to and he does not have limitless time to prove his reforms are working. In an opaque political environment like Saudi Arabia there is always the chance of opposition emerging from within the royal family to thwart his plans. There is also the risk that disillusionment could set in among the wider population, particularly if unemployment remains elevated. 