The oil and tech sectors are both performing well and presenting opportunities for investors, but in different ways. According to a recent Wall Street Journal article, since the oil-price bottom of January 2016, both the global oil and tech sectors have returned more than 80% (including dividends), widely outperforming the broader market, which gained 53%. But the article explains that the underlying factors differ: the oil sector is following a trajectory of post-crash rebound, while the tech sector has been led to "heady heights by giddy enthusiasm for a bright future." And these divergent factors set decidedly different stages with respect to sustainability. Specifically, post-crash recoveries tend to be built on a firmer footing than end-of-cycle booms, in part because trepidatious investors keep companies in check by discouraging management from spending money on new projects, thus supporting rising profits. Oil/Energy Present Value Opportunities  After oil prices plummeted in 2014, cost cutting efforts were implemented and new capital investment projects were shelved. Now, having led to increased profits and cash flow, these efforts may also be laying the foundation for a sector turning point. In a recent Reuters article, BlackRock commodities portfolio manager Olivia Markham commented on the subject, asserting that the decreased investment by oil companies in recent years and a subsequent squeeze in supply has led her to expect a gradual price rise by 2020: "2017 was a challenging year for investors but there are now real opportunities in the energy sector." Although investor enthusiasm should be tempered--oil companies also face high leverage and geopolitical exposure—oil stocks are inexpensive relative to their own history and the broader market, and limits on production will help bolster oil prices and, therefore, share prices.    Using stock screening models I created based on the investment strategies of some of the market's most successful investors, including Warren Buffett, Peter Lynch and Kenneth Fisher, among others, I have identified the following three high-scoring names in the energy patch directly below (and the tech names follow further down in the article). NK Lukoil PAO (LUKOY) is engaged in oil exploration, production, refining, marketing and distribution and earns a perfect score under my James O'Shaughnessy-inspired stock screening model and high marks from three others based on its size (market cap of $59.9 billion), liquidity (cash flow-per-share of $14.66), revenue base (trailing 12-month sales of $98.3 billion). The company is also favored for its price-sales ratio of 0.61 and its debt-equity ratio of 16.98%. ExxonMobil (XOM) is engaged in exploration, production, transportation and sale of crude oil and natural gas, and the manufacture, transportation and sale of petroleum products. Exxon is favored for its market presence (market cap of $354.2 billion) and revenue base (trailing 12-month sales of $22.6 billion) as well as its three-year average net profit margin of 6.32%. Repsol SA (REPYY) is an integrated energy company that earns high marks from my Lynch-based model due to its ratio of price-earnings to growth in earnings-per-share (PEG ratio, a hallmark of the Lynch strategy) of 0.68 (anything under 1.0 passes this test). Our O'Shaughnessy-inspired screen likes Repsol's cash flow-per-share of $3.07 (versus the industry average of $1.91) and trailing 12-month sales of $49.6 billion. Technology Stocks Still Exhibiting Strong Performance The tech story has unfolded very differently compared to the energy sector. The WSJ article described it this way: "There is nothing to stop the excitement about today's trend for giant tech stocks; after all, they are cheaper than in 2000, mostly make good profits and are awash in cash." The tech sector's giants—Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and Alphabet (parent of Google)—have collectively come to represent the largest component of the S&P 500. But a sustained boom depends on investors believing that these trends will continue and that future profits will substantiate high valuations. Unlike energy/oil sector investors, who are happy to reap the rewards of cost-containment, tech investors are pushing for investment in areas showing promise, such as artificial intelligence, cloud computing and self-driving cars (to name a few). But as more companies rush toward the next shiny object, competition increases--which typically ends up helping the consumer more than the investor. So far, however, share prices seem to be bolstered by investor optimism that investment will reap big rewards down the road. The guru models I run, which combined a combination of growth and value criteria, are finding value in the technology area. Below are three names that get high marks from multiple factor-based approaches. Micron Technology (MU) is a semiconductor company favored by my Lynch-based model for its PEG ratio of 0.18 (ratios under 0.50 are considered best case) and our David Dreman-inspired strategy likes both Micron's growth in earnings-per-share and price-earnings ratio of 5.49, which falls in the bottom 20% of the market. My Joel Greenblatt-based model favors the company's earnings yield (19.67%). CGI Group (GIB) manages information technology and business process services in the U.S. and across the globe. CGI earns high marks from my Lynch-based model for its PEG ratio of 0.89 and historical average growth in earnings-per-share (based on 3-, 4- and 5-year averages) of 26.8%. My Greenblatt-inspired strategy favors the earnings yield of 6.93%. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (TSM) is a semiconductor foundry engaged in the manufacturing, selling, packing, testing and computer-aided design of integrated circuits and other devices. The company scores well according to my Buffett-based investment model based on its earnings predictability and the company's ability to pay off its debt with earnings in less than two years. Average 10-year return-on-equity of 22.6% is favored by this model as is management's use of retained earnings, which reflects a return of 31.5%. My John Neff-inspired investment strategy likes the price-earnings ratio of 17.02 as well as the historical EPS growth rate of 14.2% (based on 3, 4 and 5-year averages). Disclosure: At the time of publication, John Reese and his private clients are long NK Lukoil PAO, ExxonMobil, Micron Technology and Taiwan Semiconductor.  