In early 2018, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fluctuated wildly, leading many investors to make rash, emotional decisions. This, more often than not, results in untimely investment decisions and a decline in the value of portfolios. Picking investments garners a lot more attention than how investments are held: whether in a taxable account or a tax-deferred account, such as an IRA. Both of these can have profound impacts on the ending value of your portfolio. Rather than overreact to short-term market swings, asset location diversification should be embraced in order to keep portfolios insulated from volatility and taxes. This approach applies not only to cash accounts but also to retirement accounts, where specialized IRA provider companies are making it easier than ever to invest across new, alternative asset classes. The Financial Planning Association (FPA) has laid out some important pointers meant to take the typical investor past the idea of just investment management and include the concept of financial planning. In truth, there is growing overlap between these two disciplines. The association wrote: "Financial planning is a dynamic process where, with the help of a specially trained financial professional who is looking out for your best interests, you develop a big-picture strategy for managing your financial resources, so you’re in position to fulfill your short-term and long-term goals, with the flexibility to adjust on the fly as changing circumstances and life events dictate." This includes volatility in the markets. Furthermore, the FPA suggests identifying priorities. Is the goal to preserve wealth at all costs? Or is it more desirable to take some smart risks and enjoy the here and now?    The good news is that both of these can be achieved through investment strategies that embrace asset allocation and diversification. Take real estate as an example: More than ever, buying property holds an allure for investors because they can achieve both rental income and value appreciation. Investors can enter into partnerships that purchase real estate investments or invest directly into properties. What's more difficult is investing in real estate with tax-deferred retirement dollars. However, more and more people are working with specialized IRA providers to invest via a self-directed IRA that allows direct ownership of rental real estate inside of a retirement account. One of the most attractive things about real estate is that it is a tangible asset; owners can stop by and check up on the property. The added benefit of using a self-directed IRA to defer both the rental income and value appreciation of the property is not widely utilized as a savvy long-term financial strategy. As a contrast to real estate, investing in a single startup is akin to investing in a single equity. Experts suggest spreading the risk by investing in multiple startups. Single startups should not take up significant portions of an investor’s portfolio. Diversifying within this specific asset class increases the odds of success and provides a failsafe in case one of the startups you invested in doesn’t perform well. The other benefit of investing in startups with retirement money is that you can invest the money you care about in the people you care about. The Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that 10.3 million people will be self-employed by 2026. Which of your family members, friends or colleagues will be starting businesses that you would invest in?  A trendier way to explore alternative investments is to invest in cryptocurrencies. The beauty of cryptocurrency is that it can’t be dragged down by economic forces that affect more traditional assets, such as a bearish stock market, falling oil prices or a weakening dollar. As David McCormick-Goodhart, a financial adviser with Savant Capital Management, recently told TheStreet.com, “There is nothing wrong with an investor putting a small piece of his or her portfolio in cryptocurrency as a speculative investment, but only after all other financial ducks are in a row.” I personally use a self-directed IRA to make tax-deferred investments as an angel into technology startups, real estate and cryptocurrency. I use a self-directed IRA account for these investments because a high potential return on investment, combined with decades of tax deferral, will result in much higher long-term value versus owning the same investments outright in a taxable account. To set up a self-directed IRA, you have to work with a specialized provider who can help you establish, fund and maintain this type of IRA. Once established, you can invest in asset classes beyond traditional stocks, bonds and mutual funds, such as direct real estate, cryptocurrency or angel investments into startups. The bottom line is that diversification of investment classes, in addition to where and how those investments are held, can have profound impacts on your ending value. Investment selection and investment location diversification can be properly achieved by exploring the benefits of various investment choices -- but also working with providers that allow individuals to hold alternative assets in a tax-deferred IRA-type account. This will not only provide shelter from the storm during volatile markets but enable investors to grow their portfolios and realize financial objectives. 