President Trump will meet one-on-one with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday in Helsinki. It will be the third time the two have met since Trump was elected, but is the first time the two will sit down side by side to discuss deteriorating relations. On one hand, investors suspect a slight bounce in sentiment in Russian stocks if the meeting at least goes as well as Trump’s most recent meetings with heads of state. But on the other hand, headlines should be expected to be negative about the two leaders meeting, especially after the Special Counsel indicted 12 Russians for hacking into email servers belonging to the Democratic National Committee. On Saturday, readers of Russian business daily Vedomosti got a look at what the Kremlin is expecting from the Helsinki meet up. Here are some of the issues Putin is seen addressing, and how official Russia plans to respond. It seems apparent that for the Russian side, Syria and jointly fighting Muslim terrorists are top-of-mind in Moscow. To do that, the Kremlin thinks it is mandatory to put an end to the Cold War rhetoric.    Russian President for International Affairs Yuri Ushakov told Vedomosti that, for the government, the purpose of the meeting was “to start correcting the negative situation in our international affairs, take concrete steps to improve them to restore a more or less acceptable level of trust and, if possible, try to outline steps that would allow our countries to return to mutually beneficial cooperation.” Ushakov said the central theme will be the development of relations between the two leaders, and between Russia and the United States. “It is obvious to everyone that the recent interaction between our two countries is terrible, and to us it seems the tensions have no objective reasons,” he says. The U.S. government under President Obama tried resetting relations with Russia, but it never went far. Things took a massive turn for the worse in 2014 when a pro-Russian president of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, was ousted in favor of a pro-Western government. When it became clear to Russians that it supported the new interim government, led by Arseniy Yatsenyuk, Russia quickly moved to protect its Navy base in Crimea by what some believe was a Kremlin-orchestrated vote by the autonomous government to vote for a referendum on secession from Ukraine. The referendum passed and Russia quickly annexed Crimea, protecting its only warm-water port. Ukraine says Crimea belongs to them, as does the United States and European Union. Sanctions began shortly afterward. Then in 2016, Russian actors were responsible for breaching computer systems belonging to Hillary Clinton campaign manager John Podesta and the Democratic National Committee. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein said the indictments of 12 Russian intelligence officials living in Russia unlikely tipped the scales in favor of Trump in the election. Rosenstein also said no American actors were involved in hacking and sharing emails from Podesta and DNC with the public, throwing a bucket of cold water on the possibility of Trump’s team working with the Russians to embarrass the Hillary campaign. The Russians still deny everything. Moreover, Crimea is theirs, they say. Ushakov said the Kremlin does not want to fight another Cold War, adding that the ideological differences between American capitalism and Soviet communism is no longer an issue. That battle has been won, and not by the Soviets. “We are now facing new threats—in many respects similar in nature,” Ushakov said, mentioning jihadi terrorists. Russia also intends to see if Trump’s America is open for Russian business. The two sides have around $23 billion in trade, making both insignificant trading partners. “Economic relations need to be better developed. It will be one of the topics that will be discussed,” Ushakov said. “We have some proposals,” he said, without naming them. Trump recently called Russia a “competitor” and a “rival,” rather than an adversary or enemy. Energy is where the two countries compete head-to-head. Both Russia and the U.S. have surpassed OPEC and are becoming price drivers for oil futures. Russia energy companies are sanctioned by Washington. The controversial Nord Stream II gas supply project to Europe will be on the table for discussion, Ushakov said. The Ukrainians hate that pipeline, as they see it as a means to eventually put their pipelines into Europe out of business. The Americans aren’t too fond of it because it gives Russia a stronger foothold in the lucrative European gas markets. The U.S. has spent billions on LNG terminals and would love to take away some of Russia’s market share in Europe. “Since Trump spoke about Nord Stream at the NATO summit, we think this is a topic worth discussing together,” Ushakov said. “We are worried about the U.S. position on this. To us, this is about all about market competition. The European market is big enough for the U.S. to sell there,” he said. “The U.S. position seems to be unconstructive and contrary to the basic rules of international trade and economic relations in general,” he said. Nord Stream II is sanctioned, but it is up to Trump to enforce the sanctions. Regarding the recent indictments of the 12 Russians, Ushakov said Putin will discuss Washington’s findings of Russian interference in the 2016 election. Ushakov said diplomats are already discussing this ahead of the Helsinki meeting. “I want to reaffirm our position that the Russian government did not interfere and is not going to interfere in internal processes of the U.S.,” Ushakov said, hinting that he suspects his country might get blamed for something in the November midterms. “It is impossible to get anywhere if they keep allowing opponents of improving U.S. relations with Russia to speculate and accuse all the time,” he said. Ushakov did not mention arms deals. Think tanks in the U.S. are predicting that the best outcome from the summit will be a commitment to the New START treaty, expiring in two years, and denuclearization. What would it take for Putin to consider it a successful meeting? “If we can agree to have the leaders keep talking, this will be something positive,” Ushakov said. “There are good opportunities to meet again on the sidelines of the G20 in Argentina, and the East Asian Summit. I think that the presidents will at least be able to agree on the continuation of having contact with each other and meeting each other without people saying they should not. Maybe an invite to Moscow or Washington,” he said. “But first things first. Helsinki is a start.” 