Commodity prices have been rising in recently. As you may have noticed filing up at the pump, the oil price is up over 50% over the past 12 months, which is a sharp move, even for a volatile commodity such as oil. The industrial metals, copper and aluminum have also moved up strongly in the past few years, with aluminum and copper both up over 30% since 2016. Research suggests that rising commodity prices can be a red flag for investors, given this stage of the economic cycle. State Dependent The key thing about the pricing of commodities according to researcher Ben Jacobsen is that they are "state dependent", as a forecasting tool. If things are gloomy and you're in the depths of a downturn, then any signs of life in the economy can be a good signal. Hence metals prices can be a signal that demand may be bouncing back, and the worst may be over for the economy after the downturn. So, in a recession, rising commodity prices can be good news for investors. Higher prices means buyers are coming back, things might be rebounding and the worst could be over. Jacobsen sees more value in metals prices, specifically copper and aluminum as a stock market signal. In the past he identified a relationship between the stock market and the oil price, but is less confident that relationship has as much power in today's economic environment. Inflation Matters At This Point In The Cycle However, at a time like now when the economy appears to be doing pretty well, we aren't looking for confirmation of a strong economy given low unemployment, a high stock market and healthy economic growth so far in 2018. In fact, with last week's U.S. annual inflation rate reading coming in at just under 3%, for now, inflation may present more of a concern than sluggish growth. This is particularly true when you take the Federal Reserve's (Fed's) perspective. Remember, that the Fed set interest rates and their target for inflation is 2%. Keeping inflation under control is one of the Fed's goals along with helping maintain healthy employment, and so higher inflation can ultimately imply higher interest rates. High interest rates are generally not a good thing for investors. Yes, some of the recent boost in the inflation rate is somewhat related to the strong oil price, but not entirely, even when oil is stripped out, prices are still up over 2% over the past 12 months, with housing, a big cost for many, rising at over 3% on an annual basis based on the June inflation report. So yes, oil prices may be fueling higher inflation, but it the upward move in prices broader than that, and of course, tariffs may impact things further. Rising prices, and keeping prices under control in future, is one important reason why the Fed is hiking rates this year. The Problem Of Inflation Remember inflation does cost you as investor, and is one reason that owning TIPS can help your portfolio. It determines how much your money is worth. A dollar is less valuable to you if a meal costs $20, than if the same meal costs $10. As inflation rises, your money buys you less stuff. As a result, you're ultimately slightly worse off because your money does not go as far as it once did. As an investor it's a problem because you want the return on your portfolio to exceed the inflation rate, just for your money to hold its value. So, if inflation is 3% a year, and your stock market investments rise 3%, then, in truth, you've only stood still in terms of investment performance. Yes, your portfolio is worth more, but costs have risen too, so it only buys the same as it did before. With the S&P 500 up under 5% so far this year, small moves in inflation can make quite a difference to your underlying financial performance. So with 3% inflation, the 5% move in the market has only increased your spending power 2% (i.e. 5% market growth less 3% inflation). Yes, inflation currently in the U.S. and is most countries is pretty subdued, but that hasn't always been the case. If 2018 proves to be a relatively low return year for investors, then the rate of inflation will matter more than it has in past years. Putting Forecasts In Context Of course, even though metals prices may have some forecasting value, it's important to note that it's just one piece of the complicated forecasting puzzle. The economy is too complex to be predicted by any single variable, and even a range of variables in combination will get it wrong some of the time, nonetheless, the healthy pricing for metals and other commodities, which may have been a positive earlier in this cycle, may now be a reason to worry about rising inflation. Inflation has historically been an enemy of both the stock and bond markets. Plus this comes at a time when the yield curve too may be sending fairly pessimism signals, now may be a time for investors to exercise caution, and make sure your portfolio is one that you could comfortably live with through a bad market environment.