Back in March, when I wrote about the Port of Corpus Christi’s (Port CC) struggles to convince congress to allocate the funds needed for the Army Corps of Engineers to deepen and expand the port’s main channel, news reports at the time indicated that the federal government’s share of the funding was $225 million. Which, in the context of a federal budget that well exceeds $4 trillion, doesn’t really seem like all that much for a port that has come to play such a crucial role in reducing the nation’s gigantic trade deficit. It turns out that number was high – way high. The real number, as explained to me last week by Port of Corpus Christi CEO Sean Strawbridge, is more like $94 million. “We’re in the middle of a bond issuance which we think will be closed by early August,” Strawbridge said, “There is an apportionment of that capital that is targeted for the channel improvement project, but if and only if the federal government can execute on the project in the time frame we need it to be executed on. “We’re not going to pay for more than our current responsibility for it without a firm commitment from the federal government to execute on this project through the Army Corps of Engineers within that time frame. And there should be no reason that they can’t execute on the project. Right now, the federal responsibility is about $230 million, of which $36 million has been appropriated, so you’re looking at $194 million remaining, and if we’re willing to take on about $100 million of that, they would need to come up with $94 million to be fully funded.” Sounds simple, right?    But of course, in Washington, D.C., nothing is simple. “Washington is an ‘interesting’ place,” Strawbridge continues with a chuckle, “In a time of competing voices for other things it can be tough to get people’s attention on something so obvious." Part of the problem is that the Port’s story sounds almost too good to be true, and as the old adage says, if something sounds too good to be true, it probably is. "But in this case, it is so good that people have a tough time believing it, so we have to constantly be out there.” For those who might be unaware, the Port CC story is, for the oil and gas industry, for the State of Texas and for the national economy, in fact almost too good to be true. Start with location: Corpus Christi lies on the southern Texas Gulf Coast, less than 100 miles from the sweet spot in the Eagle Ford Shale play, and the closest port to the booming Permian Basin region. Next, there’s the infrastructure. The Port is served by multiple rail lines, two interstate highways and a growing array of oil and natural gas pipelines. It is home to multiple refineries, cargo docks, bulk docks, liquids terminals, massive storage facilities and will soon feature a satellite terminal capable of landing the largest class of oil super-tankers (more on that subject in a moment). Then there’s the aforementioned trade deficit, which last year came in at roughly $566 billion. Port CC, as the mover of more than half of U.S. crude oil exports, is now playing a key role in helping to reduce that number. The Port is currently competing with Savannah, Charleston, Boston and Jacksonville for funding for dredging by the Corps of engineers. “Those ports are all primarily container ports,” Strawbridge notes, “and most containers are imports of foreign-made goods – mostly consumer goods. A lot of that is from China, which is one reason why we had a $375 billion trade deficit with China in 2017.” Port CC is the only pure-play energy export port in this mix. “We do zero containers and don’t compete with these ports or Houston for that container business. We are very unique and have no desire to enter into that fray. If we are going to make any significant dent in the broader trade deficit, and especially with China, it’s going to be in the area of energy exports. In fact, we’re exporting energy to China – China is one of the largest energy-consuming markets.” Landing that largest class of oil supertankers is one of the main reasons why Port CC needs to be dredged and deepened, not only for business reasons but for environmental reasons as well. Such ships are currently able to enter Port CC but are only able to be partially loaded there. To then be fully loaded with crude, the ships must leave the Port and move out to the deeper waters in the Gulf of Mexico, where they are reverse-lightered with crude carried to them by smaller tankers. “When they do that, they do it outside of Texas state waters and they’re not capturing the vapors as they’re required to do when in Port,” Strawbridge notes. “So, by being able to build more of that infrastructure and fully load this largest class of tankers in-port, we will be reducing the environmental footprint of the operations as well. That’s extremely important to us. It’s also important to us and beneficial to the environment to be able to export more of the light, sweet crude that comes into our port from West Texas and the Eagle Ford. Being able to do that helps our trading partners in Europe, Asia and elsewhere to be able to meet their own emissions goals, because that grade of crude has much lower content of Sulphur and other pollutants. Getting more of these U.S. barrels overseas is much more favorable to the environment.” So, the story does seem too good to be true, making the ongoing fight for funding even tougher than it otherwise might be. Strawbridge remains optimistic about the prospects for success: “One thing we’re doing is casting a wider net. We’ve been going to our customers and asking them to also advocate on behalf of this project, and they have embraced that approach,” he says. Support from policymakers has also been critical. “Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz have been supportive and signed letters of support, sent notes, made calls on our behalf.” Strawbridge’s job was complicated earlier in the year with the resignation of ex-congressman Blake Farenthold, leaving the district in which the Port resides temporarily without representation in the House of Representatives. “But we have been adopted by a number of folks, including Congressman Mike Conaway, who represents the Midland area, and Congressman Randy Weber, who has five ports in his district [including Beaumont and Port Arthur] and recognizes the challenges we face.” With U.S. crude exports now rising to more than 3 million barrels per day, and with the nation's refining capacity strained to its limits, obtaining such a relatively small amount of federal funding to ensure this dredging operation takes place in a timely manner seems like a no-brainer. But when the facts surrounding a project seem almost too good to be true, it makes them even harder to get done in the cynical world of Washington, DC. 