Forget Twitter’s view of Putin and Trump. It’s so predictable I can write the tweets in bed while eating bon-bons. They all have a job to protect, a book to sell, a producer or a disgruntled oligarch to please. Just look at the account owners and you can see that most of them are not journalists; they are advocates to the Trump-Putin hate machine, each with their own axes to grind. Good for them. But they are largely a bunch of intransigents that no investor trusts to get a full picture of reality. Moving along ... Reporters at the press conference that ended the roughly two and a half hour meeting between the two leaders asked pointed and serious questions. Like any presser featuring a politician, they did not get full answers. (Don't worry, the experts will tell you what they really meant to say.) Meanwhile, here’s what was asked and how each man responded.* See: Trump And Putin Meet: Run For Your Lives — Forbes On Nord Stream II and energy markets ... Russian newswire Interfax asked Trump why he was so worried about Nord Stream II, the sister pipeline to the existing Baltic Sea Russia-to-Germany connector called Nord Stream. The reporter asked why he feels Russia is a rival. Trump: I'm not sure it is in the best interest of Germany, but that is a decision that they made. We will be competing with Russian gas with our LNG, though I know Nord Stream has an advantage. I get where the Germans are coming from, but we will compete against Nord Stream very strongly. Trump did not mention sanctions, nor did the reporter. Nord Stream II faces the threat of sanctions if the president decides to implement them. The sanctions would impact mostly German firms, like Wintershall. Putin also did not mention the overhanging threat of sanctions. Instead, Putin said the two sides should cooperate on keeping oil prices from falling below production costs and from going too high as well. Oil prices fell on Monday. Putin: The President told me that he is worried that we are using Nord Stream II so we can avoid using Ukraine as a transit route. We want to extend our transit contract with Ukraine ... depending on the results of a Stockholm court case. Ukraine’s Naftogaz is in a massive legal battle with Gazprom, Nord Stream II’s majority owner and Russia’s biggest gas company. It is safe to assume that this legal dispute will be used by Gazprom as another threat against Ukrainian transit of Russian gas into European markets. Tough call for Naftogaz. On why Trump doesn’t blame Russia for anything ... Reuters asked Trump if he blames Russia for any of the mess he finds himself in, including Russian hackers of servers belonging to the Democratic Party and Hillary Clinton. As expected, Putin said yet again that the Russian state did not hack any computers. He did not deny that Russian individuals hacked the servers of Clinton and other affiliated groups. But why, as the Twitterverse will complain about all day and night, doesn’t Trump blame Putin for anything? (It’s because he is a spy for Putin, of course. Duh.) U.S. and U.K. reporters tried getting Trump to criticize Putin to his face. Trump did not. I don’t pretend to know why. He has criticized Putin in the past and has criticized other leaders to their face, including most recently Angela Merkel, with whom he says he has good relations. Maybe he feels he would be punching above his weight. Or sees in Putin a similar Alpha dog. I don’t know. Nobody knows. Those that do know, aren’t telling you. Those who claim to know are guessing. Trump: I hold both sides accountable. Reuters asked Putin why Americans should believe him. And if Putin will extradite the 12 intelligence officials cited in the Special Counsel’s discovery on election meddling. Putin: Who should you believe or should not believe? I guess you have to trust no one. Where does anyone get the idea that Donald trusts my word? Or that I trust his? He defends the interests of his country, and I defend the interests of Russia. We are looking for ways to reconcile our differences and have a more meaningful dialogue. We shouldn’t proceed based solely on the political interests and the political powers in our countries. As far as the 12 officers go, I don’t know the full extent of the issue, and Donald told me all about it today, but what I can tell you off the top of my head is that we have a treaty that goes back to 1999 where we have mutual assistance on criminal cases. ... We can meet you halfway. We can reciprocate in your investigation if you reciprocate in our investigation of Bill Browder. Bill Browder is an American-born hedge fund manager. He ran afoul of the Russian government. He was one of a handful of cowboy American investors who made their fortune during the privatization of Russian state assets in the 1990s. Russian courts have charged him with tax evasion in the hundreds of millions. He denies it. Russians often use tax evasion as a way to take control of assets or go after political opponents. The same happened with expat anti-Putin businessman Mikhail Khodorkovsky. Khodorkovsky has spent much of his time in Europe advocating for the removal of Putin from office, and funding think tanks and publishers to write about it. Browder is unlikely to ever be turned over to the Russians. Browder lives in the U.K. The 12 Russian intel officers are unlikely to ever be turned over to U.S. prosecutors. Putin claimed that Browder donated millions to Hillary Clinton’s campaign and that he used ill-gotten gains to do so. Putin also said he believed U.S. intelligence officers helped facilitate the transaction. Worth worrying about is if the Special Counsel opened a can of worms. Can Russia do the same and indict American citizens for interfering in internal affairs? On Syria and military cooperation... The name “Assad” was not mentioned here. But both sides expressed interest in keeping Israel safe. Putin said he was disappointed by Trump’s killing of Obama’s Iran deal. Putin said Iranian nuclear power is safe. Both presidents said they want to keep Syria safe and eradicate ISIS from the country. Trump: Our military gets along better than our politicians do. Putin: We can help Syria on the humanitarian side. Russia is ready to do this with Europe, and I spoke to Emmanuel Macron [President of France] about this recently. Russia will provide cargo planes. I think we can do this with the U.S. We have a migrant crisis in Turkey and Jordan (and Lebanon) and if we can make Syria safer, we can start bringing those Syrians home, and that will alleviate the migrant crisis in Europe. On election meddling ... The AP wanted to know if Trump could tell Putin in front of the world that he thinks the Russians meddled in the election and that he doesn't want them to do so again. President Obama said he called Putin and told him about a server breach on Democratic Party computers back in 2016. Trump did not respond directly to election meddling questions and avoided scolding Putin publicly. Instead, Trump fell back on his favorite question in all of this: wondering what ever happened to Hillary's missing 33,000 email messages kept on a private server her people destroyed with BleachBit. Trump: My people tell me it was Russia that hacked the DNC, and Putin has told me it wasn't. I think all of this back-and-forth will go on for awhile. I still want to know what was on those DNC servers. But I have great confidence in my intelligence people. I think a joint criminal investigation under the existing treaty is an incredible offer. Putin: I was an intelligence officer myself, and I know how dossiers are made up. … I have no compromising information on the president. When he came to Moscow as a private citizen, I never met him. ... I would disregard this ongoing notion of Russia having compromising information on Donald. We do not. *This report was not pulled from a transcript of the Q&A session. It was transcribed live. It is an accurate summary of the press conference, but not a word-for-word transcription of the events.