Vladimir Putin said that President Trump shouldn’t worry about the Nord Stream II gas line into Europe shutting out Ukraine from its traditional position as transit route. “Donald told me his thoughts on Nord Stream II and said that he is worried that we will use it to no longer rely on Ukraine,” Putin said during a press conference after a closed-door meeting with Trump in Finland on Monday. “We want to extend our contract with Ukraine, but it is based on what the Stockholm arbitrage rulings look like,” he said about the years-long legal battle being waged between Gazprom and Ukraine’s Naftogaz. The two sides have been locked in a legal tug of war since 2014, with Naftogaz winning as many fights as it loses. The legal case disputes transit contracts and payments. Should Russia lose this case, it will make a new transit contract more complicated for Naftogaz. If so, Nord Stream II critics will be proven correct as Gazprom would likely seek to avoid working fully with Naftogaz if hit with massive legal fines. Nord Stream II pipes are now being placed right alongside the existing Nord Stream pipeline. The pipeline connects Russia to Germany via the Baltic Sea. Gazprom is the majority owner of the venture, with German partners Wintershall and British giant Royal Dutch Shell counted on as partners. Gazprom expects Nord Stream II to be completed next year. The gas dispute between Russia and Ukraine is legion. It is the origin story of the entire Russian sanctions story, and marks the beginning of the major rift between Russia and the West. It started in 2014 when then-president Viktor Yanukovych reneged on an EU trade deal in favor of cheaper natural gas from Gazprom. Hundreds of thousands of people protested, leading to Yanukovych’s ouster. When Russia discovered phone conversations between two American officials in Kiev and Washington talking about who should replace Yanukovych, Russia took what close Putin watchers say were evasive actions. Shortly after Washington’s pick Arseniy “Yats” Yatsenyuk took over for the displaced Yanukovych, the Kremlin reportedly orchestrated a secession referendum in Crimea and later annexed the southeastern penninsula. Critics charge that the entire referendum was a sham as Russian masterminds simply used the pro-Russia vote as a way to shove democracy in the faces of Western leaders. Crimea is, and always ways, home to Russia’s only warm water Navy port, making it of strategic importance to the Russian military. The U.S. and Europe sanctioned Russian companies beginning in the summer of 2014, four months after Crimea’s annexation. Relations have deteriorated since. See: What Reporters In Helsinki Asked Putin And Trump — Forbes Putin’s comment today that Ukraine will still be part of Gazprom’s plans was by no means an olive branch being offered by the Russians. Much hinges on Swedish judges. Putin met with Trump for a little over two hours on Monday. There was no official agenda, and the two supposedly made one up on the fly. A press conference was held shortly afterward. Trump said the U.S. considers Russia a “strong competitor” in the oil and gas markets. He added that U.S. LNG exporters will work hard to increase their market share in Europe. Both Russia and the U.S. have become direction setters for world oil prices, surpassing the previous importance placed on OPEC members. Topics of discussion surprised no one, however: election meddling, nuclear disarmament and Syria dominated. Over the last 72 hours, Trump faced the ire of members of the media, particularly pundits advocating for Democratic Party positions. Senate minority leader Chuck Schumer said Trump should cancel his meeting. Even Republican friendlies over at Fox News questioned the wisdom of Trump’s trip following last week’s indictment of 12 Russian spy agency staffers discovered to have been behind the hacking of Democratic National Committee servers in 2016. “During the tensions of the Cold War, the U.S. and Russia were able to maintain a strong dialogue. Our relationship has never been worse than it is now,” Trump told reporters today. “That’s changed as of four hours ago. Nothing would be easier politically to refuse to engage, but that would not accomplish anything. I cannot make decisions on foreign policy based on pundits’ opinion,” Trump said.