If your portfolio is heavy on tech stocks, you've done well this year, but you've also probably noticed that price-to-earnings ratios have reached scary levels. For example, Netflix and Amazon trade at 244 and 273 times earnings respectively. Bruce Pile explains how buying Kirkland Lake Gold improves your portfolio’s earnings growth while providing somewhat of a hedge if the market takes a dive. Ken Kam: A lot of people look at Gold stocks as a hedge for market downturns. Is that your primary interest in Kirkland? Bruce Pile: No. Gold as an investment in a clear bull trend is one thing, but as a continuous hedge against drops in the stock market, it doesn't make sense to me. The problem is that gold, over any long period, spends most of the time going sideways or down. The stock market over any long period spends most of the time going up. I sound like Warren Buffett there, but I'd rather have the unpredictable drops in stocks now and then just put a dent in my gain as opposed to having gold be a drag most of the time. Kam: Do you have any numbers to back that view? Pile: If you just look at the last 30 years and judge a sideways or down market by the slope of the simple 200 day moving average and look at the price of gold, you find that 53% of this time was spent dragging down any continuously gold hedged fund. And this period was mostly the big gold bull market starting in 2000, which many gold bulls say we're still in. So for a more typical 30 year period, gold would be much more of a drag than that. On the other hand, by the same 200 day moving average over this 30 years for the stock market (SPX), you find that stocks spent 78% of the time climbing to a ten fold rise, dusting gold's 2.8 fold rise over the same period. This was despite the Persian Gulf War (both of them), the dot-bomb debacle, 9/11, the Great Financial Crisis, the Asian Contagion, and much more. If you had placed your hedging bet with the miners instead of the metal over this 30 year period, you fared much worse. Looking the XAU miners index graphed vs the gold price, you see the pathetic under-performance of the miners, logging a 30 year return of -23%. If you look at this tell-tale graph closely, you see that this under-performance becomes pronounced after about 2005, when the average price of oil broke permanently above the $35/bbl ceiling of decades of cheap energy. In this age of declining ore grades and high energy prices, it is much tougher for the energy intensive miners to profiteer on higher gold. Kam: So any kind of gold hedge is out of the question for you? Pile: I wouldn't say it's out of the question, but you have to find something highly uncorrelated to the gold price, and that's all but impossible. Virtually all the miners are linked at the hip to the metal. But sometimes you stumble over one that isn't, and Kirkland Lake Gold (KL) is one. Kam: Do you own KL? Pile: I own it as a growth beast and not a gold hedge. The charts for KL and Netflix are like two peas in a pod over the last three years - a smooth ascent for roughly a three fold rise despite stagnant gold prices. Kirkland has the kind of results I love in a growth stock, one of which I call an "inverted cash-flow curve" where they are making cash-flows grow faster than their revenue. Since the 2014 reporting year, Kirkland has smoothly grown revenue by 4.9 fold, but cash-flow from operations by 12.8 fold and EBIDTA by 17.1 fold. You would expect to pay worrisome multiples on this kind of growth, but KL sells for just a 24 PE, albeit with a 6 multiple on its revenue. But that's not too crazy. Kam: How is Kirkland Lake, a gold miner, such a "growth beast" without rising gold? Pile: They simply have some of the very best properties on the planet, both in production and a lot being developed. And it's all in the mining friendly countries of Canada and Australia with no government high jinks. Management is very good at running a business, not just finding the good stuff. They have some of the highest ore recovery rates in the world (96%) with an ultra low AISC (All In Sustaining Cost per oz. of gold produced) at around $800/oz. On about any current list of miners' AISC you see numbers in a range between $800/oz. and $1200/oz. They have a fat cushion of profitability around any gold price moves, and their production expansion indicates continued growth with similar cushion. They recently announced some pivotal drill results on some of their future production property and found ore at gold content ranging between 4 g/t to 13 g/t (grams per ton). Last year, their current production was at around 14 g/t. That's the range miners used to enjoy clear back in the 1960s. Since then, the industry wide problem of declining ore grades now has the global average production reported at just 1.18 g/t. This wrecks havoc with costs because extracting and processing tons of raw ore is extremely energy intensive and makes low grade miners much more a slave to the gold grade, gold price, and oil price. Kam: So ore grade is the critical factor in choosing any gold stock. Pile: It's that plus the ability of management to run a business. You typically will find some producing companies with very good properties but inept management that can't turn revenue into anything good. Kirkland's management is extremely good at handling sales. But even the best management must have the ore to work with. Kirkland has that galore. If you scroll down in the above global production link, you see a world ranking of miners by overall grade, production and reserves. You see that there are only two miners ranked ahead of Kirkland - Anglogold Ashanti and Kinross. The Kinross high grades haven't kept their AISC from averaging over $900/oz. and Anglogold Ashanti is in South Africa, where the mines are very deep underground and the AISC is over $1000/oz. That leaves Kirkand as the lowest cost, high grade producer in the world. The CEO, Tony Makuch, has this to say about the above mentioned recent drill results and its growth implications for Kirkland: And in a new set of drill results just released on July 5, more extremely high grades (30 g/t or more) were found, prompting Makuch to comment: This is on one of their two major, expanding, producing properties, Macassa, and it ranks #2 in the world by the ore grade measures of mining.com. They are still on the hunt for new properties and they certainly have a history of finding the good stuff. They are executing aggressive long-term growth with zero long-term debt and robust cash-flows. And it doesn't hurt that Eric Sprott, with a net worth of some $12 billion, and considered by many to be the premiere, most successful financier of gold properties in the world today, is Chairman of the Board at Kirkland and is its biggest shareholder. Kam: Do you recommend Kirkland to those who wish to carry a gold hedge? Pile: Certainly. However, I would caution that they have just two main properties that are generating about 79% of their gold for now. The usual caveat of miner risk from floods, labor problems, regulatory concerns, etc. applies here. I think Kirkland is also good for diversification in any growth portfolio such as those concentrated in big cap tech. The icing on the growth cake is that KL still acts as a hedge if a market debacle should strike FANG or if something causes gold to bolt higher. My Take: When interest rates are rising, companies that can't grow earnings usually see their stocks fall. Kirkland Lake Gold provides high growth at a reasonable price. Kirkland Lake Gold’s net income is 310% over last year and the stock trades at 24 times earnings. If your portfolio’s price-to-earnings ratio has gone through the roof due to stocks like Netflix, Amazon, and Facebook, adding KL to your portfolio does three good things for you. To follow Bruce Pile, click here If you would like to be notified when I write about stocks you are following, click here. 