This is almost another Y2K scenario. The media have gone overboard on pitching the end-is-near on the China trade war, but so far, so good. The U.S. market is up, China's market is down. The immediate effects of trade tariffs and even trade-war rhetoric have been limited. If the editorial board over at the WSJ and the FT and The Economist are right, then all this ends badly for both sides. If they are wrong, a better trade arrangement is worked out before it all goes to hell in a handbasket. Barclays Capital said yesterday that global growth, fiscal and monetary policy in the core economies is beating out a trade war for the time being. Investors are not taking the long view on this trade fight just yet.    Corporations, which are forced to think longer term, are taking a wait-and-see approach. Not everyone is convinced the trade imbroglio between Washington and Beijing lasts for Trump’s entire term in office. He could be gone in two short years. Some midwestern farmers are nervous, but they are not ready to ride the Democrat’s blue wave in the midterms. “I understood politically why the Chinese chose to tariff soybeans, but they made a dumb move,” says John Baize, an analyst with the U.S. Soybean Export Council. “They are going to pay more for soybeans out of Brazil. Whether this hurts Republicans in the midterms, I don’t know. There is a good chance this all gets ironed out before then,” he says. Some businesses have been moving out of China on account of new supply chain shifts, better taxation and labor markets elsewhere. The tariffs pushed those thinking of the move over the edge. “With recent tariff battles, companies aren’t as eager to have production in China,” says Nathan Resnick, CEO of startup company Sourcify. The business-to-business manufacturing platform has offices in San Diego and Guangzhou. “We run production runs in India, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Philippines, and Mexico right now. Labor costs are actually more affordable outside of China so for products like apparel where there is a lot of cut-and-sew labor, most companies are moving out of China anyway,” he says. Sourcify raised $2.5 million through Y Combinator this winter. “I’ve been going back and forth to China for years, and it is getting more expensive. With all these tariffs coming, why not run some of your production runs elsewhere? Companies are saying that the scare of these tariffs has decreased the incentives to manfucture in China.” On Monday, Panjiva Research said Trump was winning the trade war if one considers trade deficits as a benchmark. The U.S. trade deficit fell 6% on the year ending May 31 to $43.1 billion, Panjiva analysis of official data showed. “That’s a clear success for the policies of President Donald Trump given the administration’s focus on the trade deficit,” says Chris Rogers, an analyst for Panjiva, a division of S&P Global Market Intelligence. “There’s a lot of whining, both public and private,’ says William Reinsch, Scholl Chair in International Business at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C. “The media continues its quest for ‘pain stories’ of companies closed, workers laid off or farmers bankrupted because of our trade policy. These are always anecdotal—the first round of $34 billion is not likely to have a major macroeconomic impact—but a good story can often transform public opinion, so stay tuned,” he says. There is a lot going on behind the scenes. Optimists believe those backdoor deals turn into something better for the U.S. in the end. They have the pessimists beat. Republican capitalists are at wit’s end. Democratic socialists don’t know what to do because giving kudos to Trump is a bad look, so they stay quiet on all things related to the economy. They will pounce if Trump backtracks on China. The Constitution gives power over tariffs to the Congress, but exercising it effectively in the face of a determined president can be difficult. Leading Democrats are with Trump on China. Senate leader Chuck Schumer most certainly is, so is Bernie Sanders. Some Republicans may not be, paying homage to fair trade rules that only exist in op-ed columns. There are not enough free traders roaming Congress to go against Trump’s taking a hammer to trade orthodoxy. Official Washington has failed to challenge him on trade. “Why hasn’t that happened if everybody is as upset as they claim to be?” asks Reinsch. “Those that have the most to lose in the short run, the farmers, have been loud and consistent, and they may well have staved off—so far—NAFTA withdrawal, but they have had less success on China,” he wrote in a commentary published on the CSIS website yesterday. “There is widespread agreement that the problems of Chinese behavior the administration has identified are well founded and serious,” he wrote. “There is major disagreement over the tariff remedy, but there are very few people standing up saying we should not do something.” Will this all lead to Democrats taking the House? It’s way too soon to tell. And it is less likely that China tariffs will turn Midwest red states into blue ones. There are too many other issues to galvanize them, including the economy and migrant resettlement. “My best case assessment is that this comes to a head and both agree that it is not the course they want to stay on,” says North Dakota soy farmer Monte Peterson. “Then all of a sudden we become a larger supplier and can export even more,” he says, adding that he is a Trump supporter. The U.S. and China slapped tariffs equally on $34 billion worth of goods. Another $16 billion is coming later this month. American crude oil is on the list of items China will target in the next go-round. Indeed, they already have to some extent. Chinese refiner Dongming Petrochemical Group recently opted to go with Iranian crude instead of American, according to OilPrice.com. China plans to increase tariffs on U.S. fuels and replace them with West African and Middle Eastern crude, including crude from Iran. But as China needs more fuel than it can produce, like soybeans, the commodity it’s getting from Lagos instead of Houston is just a shift in world trade flow. Nigeria will sell more to the Chinese and less, perhaps, to the Europeans. And the Americans will make up the difference and sell to the Europeans. Investors need to be mindful of a worsening trade war not only with China, but with Europe and with Mexico. Even though the market has always recovered from declines on negative trade headlines, there is the chance that next time will be worse. In another tug of war, the bulls versus the bears, the bears still aren’t winning. At least not here.   