With the latest Drilling Productivity Report released from the EIA on July 16, the numbers in Texas' Permian basin - our largest oil field and our second largest natural gas field - continue to grow, 3.33 million b/d of oil and 10.7 Bcf/d of gas produced this month - with even more expected in August. Natural gas in the Permian comes as a byproduct of crude oil production ("associated gas"). In fact, despite accounting for 12-15% of total U.S. gas production, from May 2016 to May 2018, the Permian did not have a single gas-directed rig. Investments in the Permian have represented "$2 of every $10 spent on oilfield services and equipment worldwide." The wave of supply is coming at the right time for a state that gets half of its electricity from natural gas: "Texas sets new records for July electricity usage." With the production boom, local gas prices at Waha hub have plummeted well below the national Henry Hub benchmark, down 30% over the past year alone. Constrained by a lack of pipelines (e.g., takeaway capacity has been put at 3.2 million b/d, with production expected to surpass 3.4 million b/d in August), producers are often forced to flare the associated gas. After a certain amount of time, however, gas can only be flared with an exemption from state regulators - another reason why environmental groups should support more pipelines. The Railroad Commission of Texas issues flare permits for 45 days at a time, for a maximum limit of 180 days. Bloomberg reported Permian natural gas pipelines at 98% full in June. As crude production and thus gas output continues to mount, some Permian oil producers may be forced to curtail operations to stop associated gas. Illustrating the problem, the Permian's drilled but uncompleted (DUC) wells have been bloating, up 100 in May and up another 164 in June to now reach 3,368 DUC wells at last reporting, or about 42% of the U.S. total. Although some builders are frustrated by the Trump administration's rejections to steel tariff exemptions, growing demand outlets necessitate the need for more Permian infrastructure. After two years of delays, a major new gas pipeline to Mexico officially went into service on Monday, and more LNG export terminals along the Gulf will help ship Permian gas overseas. For oil, the Permian will buoy a 20% rise in U.S. crude production to over 13 million b/d by 2022. Pipelines are sending more of the oil to export hubs near Houston and Corpus Christi. On June 22, the U.S. easily hit a weekly record at 3 million b/d of crude exports, and we could top 5 million b/d within five years. Surging U.S. crude exports explain why the Intercontinental Exchange just announced plans to launch a new Permian WTI crude oil futures contract, with physical delivery to be taken in Houston. Subject to regulatory review, the exchange will give traders direct access to Houston prices and is expected to be launched later this quarter. "Is it finally time for Houston to bump Cushing as U.S. oil hub?" Farther out, we know the future is even brighter: "The Permian Oil And Natural Gas 'Growth Wall' Is Short-Sighted." As perfectly questioned by legendary oilman T. Boone Pickens, the oil and gas potential in the region is ever-growing: “How can we have been drilling in the Permian Basin for 100 years and then find out it has twice as much as we thought?” 