The Strategic Petroleum Reserve is many things to different people. To some, it’s an insurance policy. To others, a costly white elephant. Still others think of it as a shiny fire engine that’s too nice to actually take to a fire, and it has sat largely idle these four decades. In the early years of its existence, much of the debate centered on the Defense Department’s insistence that the SPR was needed in the case of a major war in Europe, when submarines would be sinking oil tankers left and right, as in World Wars I and II. The military saw the SPR as the ultimate fuel depot for use in a major war. (I can’t seem to recall who they thought the enemy would be, maybe Macedonia? Montenegro? One of those powerhouses.) To date, there have been only minor releases from the SPR, many just to raise money to cover operating expenses. As the figure below shows, there has never been a release of more than 30 million barrels, despite a number of oil supply disruptions, from 1990/1 Gulf War, to the 2002 PDVSA strike in Venezuela, to the 2011 Arab Spring and the imposition of strict oil sanctions on Iran in 2012. There have been minor attempts to manipulate short-term prices, as when the Clinton Administration ‘dumped’ about 30 million barrels a day in 1996, an incremental supply of 85 tb/d. And there have been many calls for the government to use the SPR in order to stabilize prices, although ‘stabilize’ is a very loaded term: consumers use it to mean lower prices, producers, to mean higher prices. Because the price of oil is very volatile, which has a number of negative consequences. Price stability has many fans. As President Putin said in Helsinki this week, “I think that we, as a major oil and gas power and the United States as a major oil and gas power as well, we could work together on regulation of international markets because neither of us is actually interested in the plummeting of the prices and the consumers will suffer as well and the consumers in the United States will suffer as well.” (Emphasis added.) https://www.npr.org/2018/07/16/629462401/transcript-president-trump-and-russian-president-putins-joint-press-conference Of course, he also channeled his inner Jack Ripper[i] to say, “nor we are interested in driving prices up because it will drain juices, life juices, from all other sectors of the economy from machine building, etc.” Which might seem odd, coming from a country that has recently participated with other oil producers in restraining production to raise, I mean, stabilize oil prices, but really only highlights the subjective nature of “high” versus “low” oil prices. Policy regarding deployment of strategic reserves has tended to be a tug of war between those who think it should be used to offset physical shortages of oil (only rarely), and those who want to stabilize prices generally (frequently). Both are incorrect, although the former is still the official stance in many places. Price stabilization is the easiest to dismiss: both history and theory agree that efforts to stabilize commodity prices invariably lead to them being set to high, as the interests of producers is more intense than that of the much broader-based consumers. An extra 10% price impacts coffee, tin or oil producers far more than it does consumers. (Read Newbery and Stiglitz The Theory of Commodity Price Stabilization or Paul Eckbo’s Future of World Oil, both classics in their own way.) On the other hand, anyone living through the gasoline lines of the 1970s will embrace the notion of reliance on strategic reserves to cope with physical shortages of supply. In reality, those gasoline lines were the result of misguided regulations, most of which are no longer with us. With free markets (largely prevailing since the Thatcher-Reagan economic revolution), physical shortages are uncommon, small-scale and short-term. In the case of a large supply disruption, prices adjust to balance the market and a release of strategic reserves would thus not be necessary under that approach. Which highlights an important element of oil crises that is too often neglected, particularly by military or geopolitical analysts. The damage from oil crises is primarily economic, and the result of abnormally high oil prices. Governments fear factories going dark because of lack of oil, but as we saw in the 1970s, the factories went dark from oil shock-induced recession, not lack of supply. If higher oil prices are needed to balance a market in the longer term, as when Venezuelan supply is declining, release of strategic reserves would be misguided, encouraging consumers to continue using oil at previous levels and discouraging industry from replacing the lost supply. But if a temporary situation, such as the Gulf War, sends prices soaring due to geopolitical, not economic, conditions, then a release can minimize the economic damage. Unfortunately, the temptation to use strategic reserves for political purposes, such as to lower gasoline prices for consumers prior to an election, is very strong. U.S. presidents have, largely, resisted this urge and I would encourage President Trump to do so as well, at least under the current conditions. [i] (See Doctor Strangelove)