One company striving to grasp the digital thread is Russian giant Gazprom Neft. The company is active in all of Russia’s major oil and gas regions, selling throughout the Russian Federation and exporting its products to more than 50 countries worldwide. Alexey Vashkevich, head of geo exploration at Gazprom Neft is clear that each company needs to base their strategy on their value drivers and then identify which product they need to use for the digital transformation. “When we started this process, we had about 200 ideas in the digital area,” he says. “Then we started to prioritize those ideas, trying to build what would bring the biggest value. Then we just realized there was no way we can do that. It's just so difficult, there is so much uncertainty. We don't really have experience in doing that. “We revised the process starting from the top level by deciding what we thought the main value drivers are in the digital arena for exploration. Then based on that we started building the products. There are many companies that try investing in developing these basic digital solution tools themselves, which might be misunderstanding the whole point of where the value comes from. If you really understand why you're doing digital, what value you're trying to capture, the tools are there already for you to use.”. Digital vortex Vashkevich calls the current business landscape an area of digital hype dominated by digital companies such as Google and Alibaba, who preach a new way of doing business and that's what we need to take as a recipe, apply and success will come. But he also believes that it is important to distinguish between the examples you usually hear. “We call it the digital vortex, all those industries are one way or another located in the center of it,” he explains. “These particular industries cannot survive without becoming digital. You cannot really think of a good bank right now without online applications, instant money transfer, and high-level security. “But it's very important to understand, it's still an opportunity strategy, it's not a survival strategy. For us, we can still see ourselves in the next decade. If you ask the financial department or strategy department for every company, they will tell you that their strategy is to show this level of performance for the next 20 years, and digital is not part of their agenda. “They have some plans for it, but we can survive without it; it's nice to have. It's very important to understand that from that perspective, the way we approach digital, structure our organization, and motivate our people for digital should be different from the other industries.” The miracle triangle This needs to be set against a set of increasing challenges. Last year, the biggest onshore discovery in Russia was 210 million barrels. Fifteen years ago, it would average three discovers a year of a billion barrels. “The push for the technical limit is there but the question is what efficiency increase we can get on the technical limit?” he explains. “When we talk about technology, it is unfortunately restricted by what we call the miracle triangle where you have cost, quality, and time. You can always choose two. If you want it quickly and good quality, it means that it's not going to be cheap. If you want it to be cheap and quickly, then you probably sacrifice with the quality.” That is a quandary that has been faced and overcome by many sectors, including consumer electronics where devices are getting cheaper, more reliable and have shorter production cycles. “They somehow learned how to do it and there are many examples from different industries,” Vashkevich adds. “That is where I think the main enabler for that performance increase will come from the digital source.” Focus on exploration Having met with companies that have successfully applied digital technology to their processes as well as consultants and software developing companies, he realized that the available technologies could have a higher impact on the later stages of field development. Advanced analytics and digital twins usually apply to the development and production phases, but it is in exploration where the biggest costs and requirements are. “If you think about exploration, that's where the biggest cost is,” Vashkevich says. “That's where the biggest source of data comes from and that's where pretty much the biggest value is built. Almost 80% of the value is built by the end of the exploration phase. Intuitively, we all understand that something is wrong here. Something is not really matching in terms of the potential for the digital in exploration.” Making it simple The process flow of exploration is lengthy, starting from seismic work until the geological model is complete, the average span is about 18 months. “We're talking about improving that by two or three months,” Vashkevich continues. “Although a lot of the software applications are digitized it's mostly done by human and transferred from one stage to another. “We need to simplify the data. By the end of the cycle of exploration we probably have about 10% of the data that we hand over to the next phase of development, drilling, and production. Our main task was historically to get as much data at the beginning and then simplify it in the way that keeps most of the information available. “You need to start thinking in the opposite way. We know that drilling does not need the full geological model but only needs some parameters set. Can we get those parameters from the source data? Can we get a new way of interpreting seismic data where you can extract that information online and just avoid that middleman of geology modeling? “Then you start asking if that's the case, if that's where the potential is, who will be the one who will start challenging the industry? Is that the service companies? I don't think so. Is that the software developing companies who are selling improvement, 3, 4 or 5% as an achievement? I don't think so. Is it exploration teams within the companies? Is it regulatory? That's probably where it's all starting to turn around. Potential is there and it's huge. Tools are there. The question we have right now, who will be the main driver for those changes? I think that's where collaboration starts playing the key role for that.” 