The first estimate for June quarter’s GDP growth was released Friday morning, showing growth of 4.1%. This was a solid increase from the 2.2% first quarter print, but a little short of most projections. To smooth out any one quarter’s spike or drop, the U.S. economy grew 2.9% on a trailing four quarter basis, matching 2015’s result. This Forbes article does an analysis of the quarter's growth. One short-term unknown: How much of the increase is due to tax cuts? And could they be a sugar rush that will wear off? The resulting yearly Federal deficit to $1 trillion (or more starting next year) could have significant negative long-term consequences. Trump’s tariff wars could impact the economy not just in the short-term but also in the long-term, as countries may adjust their domestic policies if they think the U.S. is not a reliable trading partner. For example, think of China becoming more focused on increasing soybean production and therefore having a long-term impact on U.S. farmers.    I have developed a publicly available Google document, which tracks over 100 indicators to help evaluate the progress and potential of “Make America Great Again.” Below are a few of those indicators that I think are worth highlighting. GDP growth helped by exports but hurt by inventories  A couple of items from the GDP report to keep in mind: In any given quarter, the major components (personal consumption, private domestic investment, inventory changes and imports & exports) can fluctuate significantly, as they did this quarter. One key swing factor this quarter was inventory declines subtracting 1% from the result, but this was offset by exports adding 1.1%. Companies trying to adjust to the tariffs may have impacted these two items. Note that the Bureau of Economic Analysis has revised its historical figures. The trailing four-quarter GDP growth was 2.845%, but has been rounded up to 2.9% in the graph. The S&P 500 is being buffeted by tariffs and higher interest rates  The S&P 500 is up 32% since Trump was elected and is just under 6% for the year. July’s increase of 4% accounts for over two-thirds of this year's gain. The implementation of tariffs and an increase in interest rates have caused the stock market to be more volatile this year and could offset the tax cut benefits. Unemployment rate is getting about as low as it can go The unemployment rate hit a high of 10% in October 2009 around the depth of the Great Recession, and it declined seven consectutive years during Obama’s presidency. It has continued this downtrend trend and hit a low of 3.8% in May this year before inching up to 4% in June. Job growth continues its five year trend With 1.29 million jobs added in the first six months this year, the country is on pace to exceed 2016 and 2017 figures. It could be difficult to exceed 2015’s 2.71 million due to the challenges companies have finding people with the right skills. Additionally, the administration’s tightening immigration policy could put a damper on not just having enough people for organizations to hire, but also having the people with the right talents and expertise. Hourly wages trending up but still below expectations Hourly wages have moved up from the 2% zone during 2009- 2014 to the 2.5% to 2.9% range the past three-plus years. One reason they haven’t moved higher (as many have expected they should due to the tight labor market) may be due to higher paid individuals leaving the workforce who are then replaced by newer entrants at lower wages. Manufacturing jobs are on the rebound In the first half of this year, there have been 174,000 manufacturing jobs added. This is almost as many as any full year over the past decade and should easily surpass any added during Obama’s administration as the economy recovered from the Great Recession. Coal jobs have halted their downward trend At its recent peak in 2011, there were 89,400 people employed in the coal industry, declining to 49,700 in 2016. There are now over 162 million people employed in the civilian labor force and almost 3.5 million jobs have been created since 2016. Over the same 18-month time-frame, the coal industry has added 3,500 jobs for a total of 53,200, making up 0.033% of the U.S. total workforce. Federal deficit shooting above $1 trillion a year The federal deficit peaked at $1.4 trillion in 2009 due to the Great Recession and fell to a low of $438 billion in 2015. It increased to $666 billion in fiscal 2017 (Obama’s last budget), but due to the Republican and Trump’s tax cuts it looks to hit $1 trillion in fiscal 2019. Unless the economy can consistently generate 3% or greater growth the deficits will likely remain above $1 trillion. This is a tall order because the economy will slow or contract (historically we are overdue for this) and the deficit will balloon even higher. U.S. trade deficit has increased under Trump’s watch After hovering around $500 billion during the last three years of Obama’s presidency, it rose to $552 billion in 2017 and was $570 billion over the past twelve months. While Trump rails on trade deficits, the larger deficit is being driven by the strength of the U.S. economy (a good thing). He is correct that certain industries and citizens are negatively impacted by other countries trade practices. However, he overlooks that U.S. consumer’s benefit from products being sourced from other countries. Core CPI The Consumer Price Index, or CPI, has moved above the Fed’s 2% target. The all items CPI increased 2.9% year over year as of June, however, energy increased at a 12% rate. When food and energy are removed, since they can be volatile, the Core CPI in June rose at a 2.3% rate. If Core CPI remains above 2%, this is another reason that the Fed will continue to increase interest rates. Oil prices have risen significantly but not too surprising Oil prices have increased 65% since Trump took office. Except for a drop to about $30 in early 2016, oil prices in the mid-$40’s had been the norm for about two years after falling from over $100 in 2014. It took a few years for supply and demand to get back in balance. Prices have increased as U.S. and global economies rebound and OPEC holding pretty well to production quotas. Housing prices have risen over the past 6 years Housing prices fell and then were flat from 2008 to 2012 as the Great Recession hit this segment of the economy very hard. Since March 2012, per the Case-Schiller 20-city composite index, it has been on a steady upwards climb. This has continued during Trump’s time in office with the latest reading showing a 6.5% year-over-year increase. Mortgage rates are tracking the 10 year U.S. Treasury interest rate Mortgage rates have increased over one full percentage point since Trump took office. As the Fed has raised rates and started to shrink its balance sheet, the 10-year Treasury interest rate has also increased by a full percentage point. Since 30-year mortgage rates are closely tied to the 10-year Treasury, it makes sense that buyers and refinancers are having to pay a higher rate. 