This week, Russian state-run gas giant Gazprom announced its latest export figures – and one number was of particular interest. The company revealed that Russia’s natural gas exports to Germany increased 12.2% (3.5 billion cubic metres - bcm) in the first half of 2018, compared to the first half of last year. The increase follows record years for Gazprom exports to Germany in 2016 and 2017, with the country receiving 53.4 bcm last year alone. Germany is the largest buyer of Russian natural gas, and makes up 27.5% of Gazprom’s total exports in 2017. The report makes for uncomfortable reading in Berlin, where German politicians are trying to defend themselves from Donald Trump’s accusation last week that they are being “controlled” by Moscow because of their dependence on Russian gas.    Trump said in a testy public exchange with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg that Germany gets 70% of its gas from Russia. This is nowhere near the actual figure. The precise current amount is difficult to measure because Germany’s Federal Office for Economic Affairs and Export Control (BAFA) stopped publishing import volumes in 2016 because of privacy regulations. But in 2015 Germany imported 35% of its gas from Russia. About the same amount, 34%, came from Norway. 29% came from The Netherlands. But there is reason to believe that the Russian proportion will go up. Germany is the world’s biggest natural gas importer, having to bring 92% of the gas it consumes in from outside the country. The few gas fields that Germany has will likely be completely depleted within the next decade But looking only at gas gives a distorted impression of Germany’s energy mix, because gas accounts for only around 23% of Germany’s primary energy use. Germany also gets its energy from nuclear, renewables, coal and oil – little of which comes from Russia. Germany gets its nuclear and coal energy domestically. But Chancellor Angela Merkel has vowed to phase out both of those energy sources within the next decade. The country has an ambitious renewable energy expansion program in place called the Energiewende which is designed to replace those energy sources with solar and wind. But sceptics say it is more likely to be replaced by Russian gas – hence the economic imperative of the new Nord Stream II pipeline which Trump criticised at the NATO summit. On Tuesday diplomats from Germany, the EU, Ukraine and Russia met in Berlin to try to bridge the political divides for this project. But the underlying economic reality is more stark. Germany may not be “controlled” by a dependency on Russian gas at the moment, but if the disappearing coal and nuclear energy is replaced by Russian gas, it would quickly be in a situation where it is. And that has many in the West very concerned. 