When considering the odds of winning, the old Arizona state lottery slogan "You can't win if you don't play" seems pretty misleading. But if you're a level-headed investor who sticks to fundamentals, the same slogan could apply to the stock market. No matter how often we hear that stock market timing is an ill-fated pursuit, there are still those among us who fall victim to headlines, emotions, elections or other outcomes that are very difficult to predict. More often than not, this can lead to the unfortunate scenario of buying high, selling low and missing out on returns that stocks produce over time. The concept, which applies regardless of the age of the economic cycle, may be particularly relevant today, as the current bull market continues closing in on its ten-year anniversary. Very few pundits are calling for a near-term recession, but there are some. Jeffrey Gundlach of DoubleLine Capital recently told Barron's that he is growing more cautious about 2019 and, based on a series of leading indicators his firm tracks, a recession could be in the offing. In a separate Barron's cover story from late June, the magazine made the case for the bull market ending in in 2020. But as J.P.Morgan Asset global market strategist Samantha Azzarello recently pointed out, "it is important to remember that being late cycle does not mean that the end is near; indeed, this 'late stage' could be long, sticky and drawn out, just like the broader cycle. Calling the end would be a fool’s errand and could result in missed opportunities." And by missed opportunities, Azzarello means lost dough. She offers data showing that the average return for the two years preceding a downturn is almost 45%; even for six months preceding, that return averaged 14%. "This suggests that exiting the market too early may leave considerable upside on the table," she wrote, adding, "Moreover, the truism applies that timing the exit also requires timing re-entrance. Critically, the impact of those activities tends to significantly hurt returns." The energy sector is one place to look, since demand for energy increases as the economic cycle ages and growth slows. Oil prices have been recovering slowly in the last two years and energy companies have exhibited earnings growth, and the sector can also offer a hedge against inflation as well as potentially rising geopolitical risk (which could boost oil prices further). For example, BP (BP), Teck Resources (TECK) and CNX Resources (CNX) are three energy names favored by my model based on David Dreman's contrarian investment methodology. The Dreman-inspired model looks at a number of valuation metrics--price/earnings, price/book, price/dividend and/or price/cash flow ratios--and then applies a number of other fundamental tests, looking, for example, for a high current ratio, high return on equity, high pre-tax profit margins, and a low debt/equity ratio. Other studies have underscored the importance of staying in the game--that almost all big stock market gains and dips are concentrated in a small percentage of the year's trading days, so missing just a few good ones can dramatically impact investor gains. Therefore, while some may think it wise to buy stocks in a rising environment and move to cash and "sit it out" when the market is aging, this approach can ultimately prove detrimental to investing success. One such study was conducted by Dr. H. Nejat Seyhun, professor of finance at the University of Michigan's Ross School of Business, who analyzed stock market returns for all trading days between 1963 and 2004. His data showed that by missing out on the ten "best" trading days of the year (those with the largest increases), returns would drop by a hefty 41%. His study determined that during the 42-year period analyzed, only 0.85% of trading days accounted for a whopping 96% of market gains. His conclusion: "By being 'out of the market' for as few as even one or two of the best performing months or days over several decades, a portfolio's return is significantly diminished." Such a scenario is exacerbated by the fact that forgone gains can't compound during the rest of the holding period. The health care and utility sectors are also appealing late in the cycle, as both are predominantly U.S.-focused and benefit from stable demand, low unemployment and a favorable regulatory environment. In the large-cap health care arena, names like Novartis (NVS), Pfizer (PFE) and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) all receive 100% score based on the Cornerstone Value quantitative model developed by author and money manager James O'Shaughnessy. The model seeks out large-cap stocks with strong cash flow generation and other fundamental factors, with the final sort being on dividend yield. Novartis, Pfizer and GlaxoSmithKline have dividends of 3.3%, 3.6% and 5.2%, respectively. In the utility sector, there are a number of non-U.S. firms that get high interest from my investing models. These stocks may have a dual benefit in that utilities often hold up well during market declines and exposure outside the U.S. should help provide some diversification as economies and stock markets become less correlated over time. Enel Generacion Chile SA (EOCC), E.ON SE (EONGY) and National Grid (NGG) are three names that achieve 90%-plus scores according to my PE/G investor model based on the strategy outlined by Peter Lynch. This models looks for companies that have an attractive P/E/G ratio (P/E multiple compared to the long term earnings growth rate), as well as reasonable debt/equity ratios, good earnings growth and positive free cash flow. The lesson here is that staying invested is a better idea than jumping in and out of the market due to knee-jerk, emotional reactions. Every day on Wall Street, a headline or analyst report is viewed by some investors as a harbinger of things to come and a signal to act. But these sorts of emotional reactions can prove very costly. Staying the course is the better tack—buying shares of fundamentally sound businesses with sustainable, competitive operations, and holding onto them through the ups and downs. "Most importantly," advises Azzarello, "rebalance, stick to a plan and remember: get invested and stay invested." Disclosure: John Reese and his private clients maintain long positions in the following stocks Pfizer, Enel Generacion Chile SA, National Grid, BP, Teck Resources and CNX Resources. ---- 