Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, a charismatic and sometimes controversial politician known by his initials, AMLO, won Mexico's presidency in a landslide victory on July 1. AMLO's dominant victory gives him a broad mandate as he prepares to take office on December 1. AMLO is already assembling a team of advisors to serve in his cabinet and reaching out to his counterparts in the U.S. and Canada to move forward with NAFTA talks. AMLO still has to clearly define his proposals for kickstarting meaningful economic development, creating jobs, improving security, and tackling corruption. Over the years AMLO, an old-school leftist who has a reputation for being a pragmatic strategist, has made some alarming statements on the topics of free trade and protectionism.  But, since July 1 he and his advisors have worked to reassure investors and CEOs, both within Mexico and around the globe, that he will work to promote economic stability and attract investment. Most analysts believe Mexico has a strong upside. But, investors doing due diligence need to understand the potential impact of political risks.  To talk about what's ahead for Mexico, I reached out to Grant Sunderland, a Mexico City-based senior energy and natural resources consultant at FTI Consulting, an independent global business advisory firm.      Nathaniel Parish Flannery: While on the campaign trail AMLO made some controversial statements about his plans for the oil sector. What is your outlook for Mexico's oil industry under AMLO? Grant Sunderland: AMLO has historically been a vocal opponent of the 2013 Energy Reform, which opened the door to full private investment in energy for the first time since Mexico nationalized the sector in 1938. While he has moderated his rhetoric on other economic policies, AMLO continues to have private oil investment in his crosshairs. The broad consensus among analysts is that the next government will not seek to revoke the energy reform. Even with the reform intact, however, there is still substantial downside risk for oil companies. The main risk is that the incoming administration halts new oil licensing, justifying any moratorium with its campaign promise to review existing contracts for wrongdoing. Similarly, there is also a possibility that it pushes for onerous environmental and land access laws that could effectively paralyze existing operations. Finally, the state oil company, Pemex, could also be given special privileges such as a mandate to be the sole operator of upstream developments or free financial stakes in projects. With just over four months till inauguration, there appears to be something of a self-fulfilling prophecy: the July 18 decision to postpone an auction in September to February was likely due to the uncertainties over the new government’s oil policies. Parish Flannery: What are the policies you would like to see in the oil and gas sector? Sunderland: At the broadest level, I think it would be good to see continuity of the previous administration’s oil policies. The reform remains in its infancy and must be nurtured for it to create benefits for Mexicans. Putting aside debate over the new administration’s rhetoric towards private oil investment, speeding up the pace of development would create many win-win benefits between the private sector and the Mexican government. AMLO has an ambitious development agenda, which will require significant financial resources. Increasing the number of joint ventures between Pemex and private companies would create new revenues to fund the agenda. Under Pemex, Mexican crude oil production fell from its peak of 3.4 million barrels per day in 2004 to 1.95 million barrels per day in 2017, depriving the government of significant revenues. In 2014, Pemex was given control of 83% of the country’s proven and probable reserves under the stipulation that it would have three years to develop them. However, in August 2017, regulators granted Pemex a two-year extension despite only having met work commitments in about 35% of the blocks, due to financial constraints and operational red tape. Leaving the acreage undeveloped implies major economic setbacks for Mexico. Opening these areas to the private sector via auctions or Pemex joint ventures would create material benefits to the new government, especially when considering private oil companies face a government take of around 75%. Nevertheless, previous efforts to launch joint ventures have failed due to low oil prices, challenging geology, and competition with other jurisdictions. Therefore, the government take cannot be too high and contractual terms must be competitive considering the surplus of upstream licensing opportunities globally. Creating more opportunities for Pemex to work alongside international companies would improve its finances and boost its savoir-faire. There are rumors that the new administration seeks to make Pemex the mandatory operator of all upstream activity and give it a free financial stake in operations. These policies would alienate investment and further stall development at a time when AMLO needs revenues. Instead, taxing Pemex at the same levels of the private companies would allow it to reinvest in more productive assets. Similarly, some analysts suggest that allowing Pemex to sell shares to the public would also increase its oversight, autonomy, and financial balances. At the end of the day, a stronger and more independent Pemex would allow the company to be a stronger joint venture partner. Parish Flannery: What about renewable energy? Could that become more of a policy priority in Mexico under AMLO? Sunderland: Right now about a quarter of Mexico’s installed capacity comes from renewable sources, mainly hydropower. Though this percentage is below the Latin American average of about 50%, the country has significant potential in renewables, specifically in wind, solar, and geothermal, and it aims to generate 35% of power from clean energy by 2024. Unlike other countries, Mexico’s definition of clean energy includes gas-powered cogeneration and nuclear, which means the goal is not necessarily zero-carbon. Investment has increased substantially since the 2013 Energy Reform created a more attractive frame to encourage private generation. Installed capacity has skyrocketed as result. Between 2012 and 2017, installed solar capacity rose almost five-fold and installed wind capacity by more than seven times. This organic growth should continue barring a major shift. Like the other presidential candidates, AMLO praised renewables on the campaign trail. In his manifesto he promises to “increase hydroelectric generation” and “accelerate the transition to renewable energy.” AMLO has touted renewables as a way of bringing electricity to the nearly three million rural Mexicans that lack access to power. Expanding renewables would create huge benefits for developing rural communities. Wind and solar would be most effective. Indeed, hydropower capacity has remained flat in recent years, and there are many challenges – such as deforestation and the need to relocate communities – for more capacity to come online. Finally, renewables face competition from cheap and abundant Texan natural gas. Nevertheless, it is likely that the recent growth in solar and wind investments should stay the course. Parish Flannery: What are the policies you would like to see early on as a signal that the AMLO administration will work to foster a positive relationship with the private sector? Sunderland: Despite publicly sparring with business during the campaign, within hours of his victory, AMLO launched a charm offensive, seeking to calm investors and prevent volatility in the markets. While AMLO and the private sector are still on a honeymoon, the relationship will be tested during the transition. Key signposts will be discussions over the construction of Mexico City’s new airport, clarity on oil contracts, and the September budget proposal, which the transition team will have some input on. The rhetoric is somewhat reassuring, but the new administration has yet to demonstrate its credibility on investment. There is still significant downside risk, mainly in the oil sector. Our view is that the transition team must prove its legitimacy on economic issues. This will mean transition officials will most likely be willing to dialogue with companies for input on shaping policy. What would confirm the new government’s economic legitimacy is in making a public commitment to champion investment projects in all sectors. The scope of AMLO’s victory gives him political power not seen in decades. The question is whether he now uses his widespread popularity and majorities in Congress to strengthen Mexico’s pro-investment policies or to revert to the statist model of past. Keep the conversation going with Grant Sunderland on Twitter (@Grant004). 