The rapid growth in oil production from the vast Permian Basin of West Texas and Southeast New Mexico has been the most significant U.S. energy development of the last 2-1/2 years, no question about it. According to the latest estimate by the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), August crude production from the Permian will exceed 3.4 million barrels of oil per day (bopd), an 85% increase over the roughly 1.85 million bopd produced from the Basin in December 2015. In the 32 months since then, production from the Permian has grown by a monthly average of almost 49,000 bopd. This prolific increase in output would not have been possible without a key change to U.S. public policy. Here's why. I focus on December 2015 because that was the month in which President Barack Obama signed a $1.1 trillion omnibus spending measure into law. That spending bill contained language repealing the 1970s-era law banning the export of crude oil produced in the U.S. This was language that the Obama Administration had opposed, but which the then-President was willing to accept as a part of the larger budget bill. Thus, a trick of the parliamentary process ended up enabling the passage of the law that has made the phenomenal Permian production growth possible. It's key to remember here that, due to America's long history of heavy reliance on foreign oil, the great majority of U.S. refinery capacity is set up to refine heavy grades of crude that come into the country from other parts of the world, like Canada and Venezuela. As we approached the end of 2015, the rapid growth of light, sweet oil production from shale plays all over the country was already beginning to strain the ability of U.S. refiners to handle it all. With the crude oil price hovering in the mid-$40s per barrel, U.S. producers were concerned that the first circumstance in which a load of U.S. crude was unable to find a home at a domestic refinery would send the price for WTI on a downward spiral.    With the refining capacity running out, these domestic producers needed to find a new home for their production. With the stroke of his famous pen, President Obama provided it. Per the EIA, U.S. exports of crude oil for December 2015 totaled 392,000 bopd (despite the ban, the U.S. Commerce Department allowed a limited amount of domestic exports through a permitting process). By the following May, with the ban lifted, that volume had doubled to 788,000 bopd. U.S. exports cracked the million bopd mark in February of 2017, and hit a record high of 1.75 million bopd in April 2018, the most recent month for which data is available. Thus, during a 32 month period of time in which Permian Basin production rose by about 1.5 million bopd, U.S. crude exports - the great majority of which move out of the Port of Corpus Christi and other Texas and Louisiana ports - rose by about 1.4 million bopd. Coincidence? Not hardly. Only a very small portion of oil production from the Permian Basin moves either westward or northward to Cushing, Oklahoma. The vast preponderance of it moves east, either to Corpus Christi, Houston or Port Arthur via the existing system of takeaway pipelines and rail. About a dozen new pipeline projects are currently in the planning or execution phases, with the great majority of the new capacity also targeting those three main ports. With no major new refining expansions or greenfield projects scheduled to come online by 2020, when many of these pipelines will be completed, most of that additional crude production will be coming into those ports expecting not to be refined there, but to be loaded onto tankers for export. When the history of the modern era of the U.S. oil and gas industry is written, any honest author will have to credit Barack Obama - viewed by most as an ardent opponent of the oil and gas industry - as the signer of the key piece of legislation that made the Permian Basin's ongoing renaissance possible. Is that ironic, or what? 