Imran Khan has claimed victory in the 2018 Pakistani election for his PTI party after a campaign that has been marred by violence and allegations of vote rigging. Although Khan's party is expected to fall short of an overall majority and would have to form a coalition, his economic policies have been questioned. As per his 100 Day Agenda with an aim of revitalizing economic growth, Khan promised to revive manufacturing and facilitate rapid growth of the SME sector. Expanding on this, it states that the party intends on announcing "an immediate support package of reduced taxes, bring energy prices in alignment with regional competitors, clear the backlog of refunds/rebates". This could be beneficial for the Pakistani fintech industry as it would remove some of the obstacles in the way for smaller companies wanting to succeed, however, the manifesto only states that this would apply to the "manufacturing industry in order to compete in international markets, boost exports, and create jobs," but it is a step in the right direction. In a similar way, Khan's pledge to build a 'Council of Business Leaders' in order to improve 'Doing Business' in Pakistan so that investment is encouraged and those from the country who are overseas can grow exports by "bringing the country within the top 100 in Doing Business rankings in 5 years from the current position of 147th." Financial inclusion, as has always been important in Pakistan, also made its way into Khan's pledges and he stated that he would develop "a plan to increase deposit base of banks to 50 percent of GDP to encourage higher savings. Initiate establishment of infrastructure lending bank (IPDF model) for large projects." From here, we can see that if Khan keeps his promises, Pakistani fintech has the potential to grow, but at what stage is financial technology in the country at the moment? At the start of this year, the telecom regulator PTA made moves in order to ensure that online transactions across all mobile phone networks are made available and simplified. In addition, by the end of this month, the PTA planned to award Third Party Service Providers licenses which would increase interchangeability between different networks and in turn, make sure that more people across Pakistan are financially included and minimize fraud. It is also important here to say that old systems should not be completely removed from countries like these, but new ones should be implemented as a choice, so those who are able to own a mobile phone and have access to the Internet can make payments in this way. However, many believe that Pakistan will be soon welcoming an economic crisis, especially as the country's buffers have decreased because of imports and debt, which later led to the devaluation of the currency four times - during a time of high oil prices and trade war issues. Could a bailout from the International Monetary Fund be imminent? Ehsan Malik, CEO at the Pakistan Business Council in Karachi said: "The government and the opposition should unite to use it to address the immediate problem and fundamental flaws that have seen manufacturing's role in the economy decline." However, because of previous loans from the IMF, this time round it could be a little more difficult and Pakistan would have to address flaws first.