Royal Dutch Shell plc on Thursday reported strong cash flow for the second quarter and the launch of a $25 billion stock buyback program. What's not to like? Plenty, given the reaction of investors, who sent the company's B shares down more than 4%. The reasons? Net earnings came in 21% below analyst consensus and production levels also were lower than some expected. Jason Gammel, who follows the company at Jefferies, still sees plenty to like. He wrote in a note that the company's cash flow was a strong $11.6 billion (ex-working capital), which was in line with his estimate, and its $11 billion in capital expenditures so far this year are below the run-rate on its $25 billion capital budget. The analyst also views the $25 billion buyback program, with the initial tranche of $2 billion able to be used over the next three months, as a strong endorsement by the board of the company's financial condition. Gammel also said the company's divestitures have hit its $30 billion target and its net debt-to-capitalization was down to 23.7% this quarter versus 24.7% at the end of the first, which he thinks could be reduced further to 20% by year-end. There's also been progress on the company's portfolio, particularly in China and the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico, Gammel added. The analyst reiterated his buy rating on the stock, which he thinks has an upside of 30%. "We believe Shell has one of the most sustainable business models in the sector, capable of fully funding the dividend with free cash flow when oil prices are at the bottom of the cycle but also generating strong cash flow in a moderate oil price environment," he said. Gammel is not alone in liking the stock. Last week Raymond James upgraded its rating for the shares to outperform. And Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Morningstar both have buy ratings on the stock. True, the company's B shares already have advanced 26% over the last year, outperforming the S&P 500 (which is up 14.5%) and oil and gas stocks (12.3%), according to Merrill Lynch. But Shell's annual dividend of 5.12% is above the 4.12% average yield for companies in the industry, the firm said, and with cash flow strong, it's expected to continue. Investors might want to consider holding or expanding their positions in this mighty gem.