Saudi Arabia is in the midst of a centralized development plan to boost its lagging economy, led by the ambitious and still popular Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman. Now, about two years into Vision2030, we are starting to get some relevant economic news and numbers out of Saudi Arabia. Some is good, but most is not promising at all. First, the IMF reported that it expects Saudi Arabia’s real GDP growth to increase to 1.9% in 2018. Even better, the IMF sees non-oil sectors of the Saudi economy growing by 2.3%, which is crucial for a country and economy desperately attempting to diversify for its long-term health. However, underneath these positive growth forecast numbers, lie some concerning trends that could spell trouble down the line for the Saudi economy. The IMF reported that Saudi banks are well capitalized and liquid, but it seems that wealthy Saudis are weary of investing in Saudi Arabia. The Financial Times reported that private businesses, exactly those the government needs to invest in the diversification of Saudi Arabia’s non-oil sectors, are not investing. Instead, they are sitting on their cash or attempting to furtively move it out of the kingdom.    According to bankers interviewed by the Financial Times, wealthy Saudis and private businesses are concerned that the government is monitoring their financial transactions and are taking steps to prevent these people from moving assets out of the country. Wealthy Saudis—princes and businessmen alike—must be taking precautions in case the economic or political fortunes of the country turn for the worse . This is not unprecedented in Saudi Arabia, but the trend indicates that there may be an entire class of powerful Saudis questioning the future, or at least preparing for a worst-case scenario. It has been more than six months since 300 prominent Saudi royals and businessmen were rounded up, accused of corruption and essentially forced to pay the government for their freedom. Many Saudis, at the time, applauded the government’s move as a long overdue attack on endemic economic and political corruption, but most honest observers took note of the extrajudicial process, lack of courts and lack of due process. This was not a straightforward crackdown as one might see in a liberal society in Europe or America. The lasting impact of that crackdown (or purge, depending on how you see it) has been a stifling of the Saudi private sector, with many wealthy Saudis unwilling to invest domestically despite Prince Mohammad bin Salman’s centralized push for business growth . The government, under the direction of the prince, is trying to compel economic growth and diversification, primarily through the Vision2030 program. This has left the Saudi government as the major source of investment in the Saudi economy, which, ultimately, defeats the objectives of diversification and privatization. Government investment can make Saudi economic numbers look good on paper, but it is a risky strategy. When oil prices fall so does government spending (meaning government spending does not lead to diversification). This also sends a troubling signal to foreign investors and foreign businesses considering opportunities in the kingdom. If Saudis are trying to move their money out of the country—and if the government is concerned enough to prevent them from doing so—foreign investors or companies looking to open businesses in Saudi Arabia will hesitate. Without assurances that the rule of law is respected in Saudi Arabia, foreign businesses will consider Saudi Arabia too risky to enter. Capital flight from Saudi citizens is a key indicator. In more traditional news, Saudi Arabia’s unemployment, which was 12.8% in 2017, has actually risen to 12.9% in the first quarter of 2018. Unemployment is a persistent strain on the Saudi economy. It is not necessarily a result of too few jobs. Rather it represents a mismatch between the types of jobs available and the type of jobs that unemployed Saudis are willing to do. After years of government-funded higher education and a large foreign workforce handling manual labor, Saudi Arabia simply has too many highly educated people and too many citizens who see certain jobs as below their status. The government still employs about 70% of employed Saudis, which is a big negative for economic health. Saudi Arabia has tried centralized economic plans before. As in the Soviet Union and China, the centralized plans in Saudi Arabia never quite worked. This plan, Vision2030, seems headed down a similar path. It may be time for Saudi Arabia to rethink the strong hand approach and try a more laissez-faire stance , trusting that the country’s past investment in education and the youth would push a healthy economy forward if the government got out of the way. 