Most parents know what I'm talking about when I analogize tracking crude prices recently to watching their kids on a trampoline. After several months of a slow but pretty steady upwards trend in crude prices, trying to keep up with the rapid, endless ups and downs (mostly downs) we've seen in recent weeks can literally give you knot in your neck. We've seldom had a better day than today, July 19, 2018, to illustrate this phenomenon. Early every morning, I start my day by browsing various websites that cover energy news to get caught up on the latest events. The first story I came across this morning is a Wall Street Journal piece published late on the afternoon of the previous day with the headline "Oil Prices End Higher Despite Rise in U.S. Inventories". Ok, cool, so the price got a little boost as the U.S. markets closed on Wednesday. Next, I found a story at OilPrice.com titled "Oil Prices Slip as OPEC+ Compliance Falls to 120 Percent in June". Written by Julianne Geiger, the piece explains the reasons behind an early morning drop in the crude price, as indicated by the headline. When Geiger posted her piece at 9:30 a.m., the Brent price had dropped by roughly 1 percent from its opening level. But then, Saudi Arabia's OPEC Governor Adeeb Al-Aama issued a press statement which reads, in part, as follows: As Forrest Gump would say, "just like that," the crude price had, within an hour, regained its 1 percent loss from early morning trading and was up an additional 1 percent over its opening level as I began to write this piece, but had lost most of that gain as I prepare to post at a little after noon, Eastern Time. Obviously, the Saudi announcement is crucial, given that crude prices have dropped about 5 percent in recent days due to the information late last week that Saudi Arabia had increased its exports by about 400,000 barrels of oil per day in June at the urging of President Donald Trump, and rumors that the Kingdom was planning to raise its production by several hundred thousand additional barrels per day in July. The news that those rumors are false could well mean that prices reached their low point yesterday, and will begin trending upwards again due to the factors contained in Al-Aama's statement. Or some other event could arise later this afternoon or Friday morning that could send the kid on the trampoline back on his downward trajectory. The reality is nobody knows for sure where the price will go next, and lots of necks will be getting knotted up trying to figure it all out in the coming days and weeks. 