Late this week, JetBlue corporate sent a missive to employees asking for all hands to be on deck for an important, Friday meeting. The tone of the message was austere, pointing to difficult but necessary changes coming up and preparing the company's employees for tough news. On Friday, CNBC officially reported that the company plans to reshuffle employees and operations in a bid to cut costs by $300 million over the next two years. As part of those changes, the company plans to offer buyouts and other incentives to some employees. Ultimately, according to Flight Global's Ned Russell, JetBlue reshuffled or shed about 17% of its workforce at its Long Island City headquarters. None of the front-line staff including flight attendants and pilots, however, were affected. JetBlue's cost cutting comes amidst of a tough year for American air carriers. Since early 2017, the price of oil and jet fuel has been on a steady climb thanks to supply constraints and volatility in the Middle East. According to The Week, oil, which at publication is priced at $68/barrel, is currently around 46% more expensive than it was at this time last year; some suggest that it can close the year at $120/barrel. As those prices rise, airlines need to contend with deeper cuts in their profits. Already, some airlines are reacting to the pinch. Late in June, American announced that it would start cutting management-level jobs now that its merger with US Airways is largely complete. That airline, too, has suffered losses through the year; since the market opened on January 2nd, American's stock price has fallen over 28%. Delta Air Lines, which shares a hub with American and JetBlue in JFK, is also down over 8% on the year. Despite the cuts, many believe that the outlook remains strong for both JetBlue and the airline industry at large. After JetBlue beat its revenue forecasts in Q1, The Motely Fool predicted a slower Q2 for the airline and then a stronger second half as non-fuel costs decline and demand stays high. This week's layoffs and the upcoming reshuffle may help see those profits through. 