Geospatial analytics startup Ursa, which builds business intelligence products based on satellite radar imagery, announced Thursday that it has raised $5.7 million in new venture funding in a round led by RRE Ventures. Paladin Capital and S&P Global also participated in the funding. The Ithaca, NY-based Ursa builds data analytics products based on satellite images using synthetic aperture radar (SAR). SAR images are of particular interest to customers because it captures information that traditional satellite imagery can't. Its biggest product right now is its weekly report on global crude oil supply, based on SAR imagery of over 300 different oil terminals. "We are focused on solving these problems with radar which is a really rich source of information," explained Julie Baker, Ursa cofounder and VP of operations. "Things you can’t get from an optical image even if you can get a clear picture." Ursa began about four years ago with a vision from its cofounder and current CEO Adam Maher. He was working for California-based SSL, which manufactures satellites and other space systems. He was working in new business development when he became fascinated with the idea of building small radar satellites. "I convinced my wife to quit our jobs so we could build small radar satellites," he said. The two of them did and also ended up moving across the country to Ithaca, NY. Why Ithaca? There were a number of compelling reasons that Maher explained to me. First was that there was a surprising level of talent, thanks to a space system laboratory at Cornell University that's headed by Mason Peck, a former NASA Chief Technologist. "There’s actually a huge amount of talent in Northeast for what we do," Maher explained. "The birthplace of satellite imagery was Rochester, New York." The next step for Maher, once he decided to go to Ithaca, was to build a company. He invited Baker to cofound the company because of her years of experience on the software side of data analytics. "I knew a lot about satellites but not about software." The third cofounder of Ursa is Derek Edinger, who Maher knew and had worked with for nearly a decade at SSL. The company worked for a few months on two pieces - building out software solutions for using SAR imagery, and developing its own SAR satellites. Eventually, though, the company abandoned the satellite effort and instead focused solely on building out the analytics piece. A big advantage for the company in building out analytics was simply that there was already excess capacity of SAR data out there. "All of these really significant SAR assets aren’t used very much," explained Will Porteous, Partner and COO of RRE Ventures, which is invested in Ursa. "There's a lot of excess capacity but it isn’t being used because the software isn’t there." This, Porteous explains, gives Ursa a big competitive advantage. "Adam is showing up with answers people want from SAR assets they’ve never been able to get." The demand for that data has driven a lot of growth for the company. Ursa raised $7 million in a venture round last October, and since then the company has grown from 8 employees to 47. Although most are in Ithaca, there are also teams distributed across the country, in cities such as Denver and Philadelphia. One unusual thing about the Ursa team is the makeup of its team. It's the rare technology company that has near gender parity. That includes its executive team, which is now 50% women thanks to the recent hire of Melanie Corcoran as the company's CTO. "We didn’t set out consciously to do this but it evolved over time," said Baker. "We feel very fortunate that so many women have applied and joined the team." Corcoran, who previously ran her own consulting firm and told me she took a pay cut to take on the CTO role, said that it's the culture at Ursa that makes it special. "There's a lot of support and collaboration that makes an environment that's more attractive to women," she said. With this new round of funding, the company intends to take the new team they've put together to scale up its product offerings. In particular, that means branching out beyond oil&gas and into other market areas where SAR data can be of interest. "The crude oil trade is important but it also gives customers a glimpse of our bigger vision - building infrastructure to monitor all supply chains," said Edinger. "Their interest in us is not just what we’re doing today but what we’re going to be doing in the future." 