It’s a momentous week for the Bank of England. On Thursday, August 2, 2018, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) could decide to raise interest rates by a quarter percent. This would mark the end of the post-Lehman crisis era in the UK and the start of the return to “normal.” But ten years on from Lehman, what is “normal”? The British central bank, like the Fed, is not at all sure what a “normal” level of interest rates would look like, nor how big a “normal” balance sheet should be. The consensus appears to be that the long-term neutral rate of interest is lower than pre-crisis estimates, perhaps somewhere between 2-3%, and that the Bank’s balance sheet will need to remain permanently larger than it was before the crisis. Given that, one has to ask what the imperative is to start raising rates right now, when the U.K. is careering headlong towards a potentially disastrous no-deal Brexit. The rational reason why the MPC might start raising rates now starts with inflation. Currently, CPI inflation is running at 2.3%, slightly above the Bank’s target of 2%. It has been above 2% for over a year now – indeed in the fall of 2017 it was approaching 3%. In November, the Bank raised interest rates by 0.25%, which removed the additional rate cut imposed after the Brexit vote in 2016. But apart from that, it has so far preferred not to act to dampen inflation. Will it do so this time?    It’s hard to see why. Inflation has fallen since the beginning of the year. According to ONS, the main reason why it remains slightly above target is rising oil prices feeding through into higher transport costs. Raising interest rates would do absolutely nothing to counter this. It would simply cause distress to households and businesses, to no real purpose. Other indicators are equally inconclusive. Growth is disappointing. This could have been partly due to awful weather in the first three months of the year. But manufacturing production is weak for the third consecutive quarter, which the ONS attributes to poor exports, while construction appears to have fallen off a cliff. Productivity remains well below its pre-crisis level. On the positive side, unemployment is the lowest since 1971, and wage growth is slightly above inflation at 2.5%. The Government is set to relax the 1% cap on public sector pay rises. This might be justification for a small rate rise, although it seems a bit harsh if the Bank squashes the first real wage growth that Britain’s long-suffering public sector workers have seen in a decade. Retail sales in June 2018 grew strongly. Worryingly, this appears to have been entirely driven by a large increase in consumer borrowing. This adds to the case for a rate rise. The last thing Britain needs as it approaches Brexit is a consumer debt bubble. Choking it off by raising interest rates sooner rather than later could be a prudent move. So the economic data are mixed. Employment is strong, and consumers are borrowing and spending too much. But inflation is close to target, growth is weak, and the supply side of the economy is clearly still damaged. For me, the rational case for raising rates is not really made. But interest rate decisions are not necessarily made purely on the strength of economic data. There are other considerations too. Some of the arguments most frequently advanced for interest rate rises are these: The first of these arguments is both irrational and dangerous. Raising rates to create policy space regardless of the state of the economy could trigger a completely unnecessary economic crisis. It’s the worst kind of self-fulfilling prophecy. I would hope central bank policy makers had more sense than this. The second argument has more merit. Small interest rate rises can be readily absorbed by the economy. People have time to adjust to higher interest rates as they creep upwards at a glacial pace. But if the “new normal” for interest rates is 2-3%, what is the tearing hurry? Why not wait until the economic data are more positive before raising rates? Conversely, raising rates because the Fed is raising rates is quite a sensible idea. The U.K. is a close associate and trade partner of the U.S., so the Fed’s monetary policy affects the U.K. The MPC might reasonably decide that keeping the U.K.’s interest rate policy aligned with that of the U.S. is in the U.K.’s interests. We really don’t need a massive transatlantic carry trade developing because of rate divergence between the U.S. and U.K. But raising rates because “we should be getting back to normal” is anything but sensible. It is central bank’s version of the mass outbreak of nostalgia that seems to have infected the U.K. since the financial crisis. We don’t know what “normal” is any more, but we do know it is not going to be the same as before the crisis. Yet we seem desperate to restore a bygone golden age. For central bankers the “golden age” is the Great Moderation, the period from the mid-1990s to 2007 when inflation was low, interest rates were 4-5% and life was good. But those days are gone. Attempting to restore them by raising rates prematurely would be the 21st century version of returning to the gold standard at too high a parity, as Churchill did in the 1920s. The price Britain paid for that was a decade-long depression. We need to learn from the past, not try to bring it back. And finally, markets. Oh dear. No, central bankers should not give in to market expectations of rate rises. Market dominance is every bit as bad as fiscal dominance. If central banks are to be at all credible, markets must do what they say, not vice versa. This week, Haruhiko Kuroda, the Governor of the Bank of Japan, gave an object lesson in disciplining markets. Mark Carney should not be afraid to follow suit. The MPC members have a difficult decision to make on Thursday. I hope they make it on the basis of data and sense, not instinct and emotion. 