Two young entrepreneurs are using leftover coffee cherry husks to create a new range of natural plant-based energy drinks. Nomad Trading Company is the “not-just-for-profit” startup looking to turn a coffee by-product into an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable supply chain. Coffee is the second most traded commodity in the world behind crude oil. An individual’s morning latte habit scales up to a global caffeine hit of 2.25 billion cups of coffee a day. The world is running on the stuff. And for the 12 billion pounds of green coffee grown every year, there's also 20 billion pounds of coffee fruit. This coffee fruit, or cascara, is a massive scale waste product of the coffee industry. But, Nomad Energy’s co-founders Max Keilson and Jon Epstein, argue it doesn't have to be. They’re hoping to put it to good use as a new natural and sustainably-sourced energy drink. A thousand years ago, the Oromo people of Ethiopia created what was arguably the world’s first energy bar. Mashing together goat fat and cascara, the Oromo realized the coffee fruit’s energizing potential early on, but since then cascara has been widely overlooked as a product in its own right. Instead, it is either trucked away to garbages dumps, tipped into rivers and streams, or unsuccessfully composted. Given the low pH of the fruit, it has the potential to acidify the water table and surrounding soils. Just by using the cascara for anything, argues co-founder Max Keilson, you’re having a positive environmental impact. According to Keilson, Nomad’s sustainability commitment extends beyond simply making use of the cast-off cascara. The brand holds itself to a standard of not just environmental sustainability, but economic and personal sustainability too. Tapping into what they call a “not-just for-profit” business model, the brand’s aim is to foster sustainability at all levels of the supply chain. The team’s quest to find a supplier took them to over 32 different farms across three countries: they chose to work with Finca Las Lajas, a family-run organic farm in the Central Valley of Costa Rica. “Not only did Oscar and Francisca, the farm’s owners, produce the best cascara that we cupped on the entire trip, they cared more about their people and their environment than any other farm that we saw,” Keilson says. “It was a very natural fit.” Nomad pays the team at Las Lajas over double the current global commodity price for coffee which, according to him, has had a very real impact on the conditions both for workers and the farm itself. “It allowed them to make some much-needed facility improvements,” he says. “Their workers and pickers are paid well above the fair trade required prices, and well above what the labor market is in the area.” Originally Nomad took a inspiration from the traditional usage of the coffee fruit in Yemen and Bolivia, and used the product to create a range of tea-like beverages. With the cascara itself containing as much caffeine as a cup of coffee and the tasting like a fruity black tea, the range did well in New York and is stocked in the city’s Whole Foods stores. But following customer feedback, the team made the decision to take cascara in a new direction: adding energy drinks to the mix. “We've been brewing Cascara as a tea for the past year,” explains the brand’s Nomad Energy Kickstarter, which met its funding goal within less than 24 hours of going live. “Overall, the response has been very positive. In that time, people have asked us for a version with bubbles. They wanted the convenience of a can. And a few months later, here we are.” Right now, brands like Red Bull own the market. But Nomad is hoping their all-natural alternative will appeal to customers who want to avoid the sugar-crashes and jitters that accompany the energy-boost of most mainstream energy drinks. Nomad Energy uses six ingredients to achieve what the team claim is a better result; cascara, water, lemon juice, maple syrup, Himalayan pink salt, and some carbon dioxide to give it a fizz. Although we’re starting to see caracara products on the menu at big-name brands like Starbucks, they very much remain an almost-gimmicky alternative to the standard brews that make up the majority of the company’s sales, Keilson says. For Nomad Trading Company, the priority is different. “For those brands, cascara is a new, trendy, summer iced beverage. For us it's a massive opportunity to shift agricultural patterns and create a secondary market for one of the world's largest scale waste products,” he argues.