President Donald Trump better be as good of a negotiator as he claims. U.S. oil and natural gas producers – and American consumers – have a lot riding on President Trump’s unorthodox approach to foreign affairs and trade. The president may yet come out on top in trade spats with China, Saudi Arabia, the European Union, and our NAFTA neighbors, but nervous traders looking at the scoreboard today are seeing plenty of signals for higher energy prices. President Trump speaks often about the importance of putting “America first” and “energy dominance” but his administration’s policies don’t always appear to support those goals. The unintended consequence of the Trump administration’s get-tough-on-trade stance includes cutting off access to the growing Chinese market and ceding control over global oil markets to OPEC, and especially, Saudi Arabia.    Beijing on Friday added liquefied natural gas (LNG) to the list of U.S. goods on which it intends to levy import duties, pulling a growing American business sector into the escalating trade war with Trump. LNG exports would face a 25% tariff that would make American gas uncompetitive in the Chinese market. China was the third biggest market for U.S. LNG in 2017, after South Korea and Mexico. China has become the world’s fastest-growing LNG market after imports surged by nearly 50% last year to nearly 40 million tons. That growth is expected to continue as China tries to lower its chronic air pollution and switch from coal-fired power production to natural gas. U.S. LNG exports were expected to escape tariffs given China’s growing energy appetite, but no. Beijing added LNG to the tariff list after Trump’s trade team surprised China by announcing tariffs of 25% rather than the 10% originally proposed. There is still time for both sides to reconsider and back away from the brink while still saving face. U.S. tariffs on an additional $200 billion in Chinese goods don’t take effect until September, and officials say no final decision has been made about imposing them. President Trump could be bluffing or more precisely, seeking leverage in trade talks by pushing all of his chips onto the table. But it’s a risky game and the president has already shown that he doesn’t back down. After all, he initiated the trade war with levies on $34 billion in Chinese goods, as well as tariffs on foreign steel and aluminum – measures that are already being felt in the energy sector which relies on steel imports. That is why the oil and gas industry is upset. American crude is already slated to be hit by a 25% levy by Beijing if President Trump goes through with his expanded tariffs in September. Now, U.S. energy exporters face the prospect of being shut out of the world’s most coveted import market altogether. China is also expected to turn to alternative LNG producers in the Middle East and Russia, as well as Australia, to replace U.S. supplies. American LNG exporters may need China more than China needs them. The United States in recent months has provided less than 10% of China’s LNG imports. China has purchased more than 20% of U.S. LNG exports. There could be long-term impacts on the U.S. LNG industry, too, as new developers of export projects – multi-billion dollar schemes that require long-term contracts with LNG buyers for financing – reconsider their options with the world’s fastest-growing market off the table. Meanwhile, in oil markets, it must now be asked whether Saudi Arabia has played Trump. The President said he received assurances from the kingdom that it would ramp up its production to help offset the impact of renewed US sanctions on Iran’s oil sector, but Saudi oil output fell in July to 10.3 million barrels a day, from 10.5 million barrels a day in June. This is extremely concerning. Saudi officials had said the OPEC giant would pump 11 million barrels a day in July with preparations to produce at near full capacity of 12.5 million barrels a day, to offset mounting supply disruption fears – not just from Iran but Venezuela and Libya. Instead, it appears that Saudi Arabia is more concerned about its bottom line than a stable oil market. Oil prices have fallen from over $80 a barrel in May to the low $70s and, based on its July output, Saudi Arabia appears unwilling to let prices fall further. Crude markets have, unsurprisingly, responded bearishly to the escalating trade war that threatens global economic growth and oil demand. It’s possible Saudi Arabia did not see enough demand in the market last month to justify pumping more oil. But with so many fires burning these days in oil-producing countries, it’s easy to see how even the smallest supply disruption could cause oil prices to surge toward $80 a barrel if Saudi Arabia continues to skimp on production. The good news for oil markets is lower Saudi output equals greater spare production capacity in the event of such a disruption. The bad news is that nobody has a clue what the Saudi oil agenda is in a highly politicized market where Riyadh is trying to satisfy very different allegiances – to the United States, Russia and its fellow Gulf OPEC members. President Trump should make sure Saudi Arabia is on the same page. Trump’s Iran sanctions took the focus off rapidly growing U.S. shale production – which had been keeping oil prices in check – and re-focused them on potential supply disruptions. Trump has cast himself as the “great dealmaker.” For the sake of America’s continued energy dominance and economic recovery, now is the time to make a deal. 