By David Burns and David Schottland Compared with other industries, chemical companies are among the least confident in their pricing decisions and the least likely to raise prices regularly (see Figure 1). Until recently, this laid-back approach to pricing hasn’t hurt their financials, thanks to low prices for many raw materials. In the years ahead, however, chemical executives will need to develop their pricing muscles again, just to hold onto margins and market share. Costs of materials, especially crude oil, are rising, as are freight rates. Uncertainty over tariff increases on petrochemicals, specialty chemicals and plastics adds to the pressure. Improving pricing skills takes focus, but there are several practical steps any company can take to raise its pricing game. Firms that harness the formula for best-in-class pricing in chemicals greatly outperform on pricing outcomes. They consistently raise prices over time and across their customer base, expanding margins above and beyond their costs. And they are increasingly nimble in reacting to opportunities and challenges in market fluctuations, executing price changes quickly to preserve and improve yields (see Figure 2). The prize is definitely worth pursuing: Bain’s research finds that improving pricing capabilities typically adds 200 to 400 basis points to the bottom line—a significant impact in an industry where margins average 10% to 12%. Top performers show common patterns. Value pricing. Too many chemical companies rely on cost-plus pricing or models that reflect only a partial understanding of the value of their products. Pricing leaders broaden the conversation to get a better understanding of the value their products add to their customers’ business. By learning what customers are willing to pay for, leaders can set the right target price for each product for each customer. One company learned from its own technology service team that its additive removed heavy metals and thus vastly increased the life of a customer’s turbines. Another found out that its product was specified in a customer’s formulation and so had no simple substitutes. Both of these discoveries revealed sources of value that the companies were able to capture. Dynamic pricing. Leaders are more than twice as likely to use dynamic pricing, reacting quickly to changes in the market and taking full advantage of upswings and downturns. They forecast changes in input costs before they occur, monitor supply and demand dynamics, and have a sense for how customer demand is evolving. Best-in-class companies know exactly which customers and products make money, which don’t, and why. This helps them decide where to be more or less aggressive with pricing, in order to expand margins opportunistically. One packaging distributor found that passing along cost increases quickly and giving back cost decreases slowly was worth an additional 50 to 100 basis points of EBITDA, compared with the closest competitor. Effective incentives. Top performers also offer their sales teams incentives that reinforce the importance of profitability, rather than merely encouraging sales volume or revenue growth. Of course, incentives shouldn’t focus solely on margin; orders from even low-profitability customers are an important part of the mix that keeps assets running at high utilization rates. To achieve this balance, companies can deploy pricing tools that guide sales teams and provide a target range that permits some flexibility. Management can flex the incentive scheme’s emphasis on price or volume, depending on market conditions and asset utilization. Senior management focus. Of course, as with every important initiative, no pricing initiative can reach its full potential without strong and visible commitment from senior executives. Our survey found pricing leaders are 42% more likely to make pricing a top management priority. One chemicals materials company makes pricing a key agenda item during the CEO’s monthly implementation meeting. Pricing actions have their own pipeline, are monitored in a stage-gate process and are as much a part of the executive conversation as major capital projects, cost initiatives, development projects and the sales pipeline. This visibility and rigor ensures that pricing changes are highly visible, and the company doesn’t count the value until it shows up on income statements. Our study found large gaps in senior management’s commitment to pricing as a critical topic. This lack of visibility may be a byproduct of the industry’s traditional focus on operational efficiency, safety and cost removal—areas of excellence that reflect the engineering strengths of management teams in this industry. Having achieved operational excellence, executive teams can now expand their focus to commercial excellence, including pricing. There’s never a bad time to improve pricing capabilities, but there’s no better time than now. Companies that don’t act may find themselves struggling to maintain margins as the costs of raw materials and freight rise. But those companies that follow the formula for pricing success—pricing to value, adopting dynamic pricing and realigning incentives—can outperform the market and maintain a healthy bottom line. Read more: The Formula For Better Pricing In Chemicals David Burns is a partner with Bain & Company in Chicago, and David Schottland is a principal in New York. Both work with Bain's Global Chemicals practice.