If there's one thing Kurt Hallead has learned in 30 years of covering the oilfield services industry, it's that perception is stock market reality. The RBC Capital Markets analyst says investor sentiment continues to be negative on the slowdown in fracturing and well completion activity in West Texas' and New Mexico's Permian Basin. But last week was the first time he heard a company – Halliburton – highlight concerns over takeaway constraints in the area. "The question now is will the stock price reality match with the fundamental magnitude," he said in a report last Friday. While Hallead agrees with the Permian concerns, he said it feels a bit like what happened to land drilling last year, when investors thought the rig count would roll. The difference today, he said, is that there's more confidence about oil prices, which drove last year's sell-off among land drillers. Hallead noted Patterson-UTI's comments recently that pressure pumping was starting to show signs of softness late in the second quarter due to oversupply versus current demand, which has impacted the company's ability to find short-term work. But he said land drillers overall don't seem to be too concerned, even talking about economic upgrades with investors.    "Bottom line: The super spec rig market is tight," he said. International and offshore companies also have said during this second quarter earnings season that deepwater activity is picking up with the number of working rigs advancing 19% over the last three months, he points out. Hallead has an outperform rating on Halliburton and Patterson-UTI along with Core Laboratories, Weatherford International, Oceaneering International and TechnipFMC. But he only has a sector perform for Superior Energy Services, Helmerich & Payne and National Oilwell Varco. Other oilfield service companies are reporting second quarter earnings this week, including Oil States International, which said Monday it's not seeing a slowdown in the Permian. It will be interesting to see if perception does equal reality. 