Investments in big oil and gas projects are back. According to Rystad Energy, the sector has accelerated its clearance of new project investments over the last 18 months, with $110 billion worth having been approved since the beginning of last year compared with $50 billion in 2016. Deepwater projects on both sides of the Atlantic, including in Norway (Equinor’s Johan Castberg field in the Barents Sea, whose $3.6 billion in work was awarded to Halliburton, Schlumberger and General Electric unit Baker Hughes) and Angola (phase 2 of Total’s Zinia field project, which was handed to TechnipFMC) have led the charge over the past few months, according to Rystad senior research analyst Readul Islam. Islam also notes the go-forward for another big project, Cheniere’s natural gas liquefaction Train 3 in Corpus Christi, which is generating business for Baker Hughes. "Higher prices, an improved outlook for gas demand and lower offshore development costs are driving the rebound," he said.    With new projects come jobs, although they've been slow in getting here. After a massive 35% reduction of the workforce between 2014 and 2016, the overall headcount at the top 50 oilfield services companies remained stable between 2016 and 2017, Rystad said. "The lack of change in the total is a result of increased hiring by companies exposed to the North American shale business and continued, if more modest, cuts for companies delivering to the offshore sector," the firm said. However, since the end of last year, hiring has been picking up within the offshore sector as rising oil prices encourage more offshore projects to be sanctioned, Rystad said. "Together with expected continuous growth in the shale market, we should see growth of the overall service sector labor market to the levels seen in 2010," the firm said, adding that the 20% growth expected toward 2020 would call for "massive recruitment." Among the companies hiring last year, according to Rystad, were Halliburton and Nabors Industries, which expanded their workforces by 10% and 5%, respectively (both are heavily exposed to the North American land market). Among smaller companies with a strong focus on fracturing services, Canada's Trican Well Service nearly doubled its workforce and RPC increased its staff by 40%, including rehiring employees that had been let go, Rystad said. 