EOG Resources (NYSE: EOG) will release its second-quarter 2018 results after the market close on 2nd August 2018 and conduct a conference call with analysts the next day. Strong production levels coupled with higher commodity prices are expected to drive significant revenue and earnings growth for the company during the quarter. Consensus market estimates depict an average EPS (Non-GAAP) estimate of $1.23 per share vs an EPS (Non-GAAP) of $0.08 reported a year ago. Revenue is expected to grow by almost 50% year-on-year (y-o-y) per consensus estimates and is expected to reside at $3.92 billion. EOG reported a 16% increase in its total production of barrels of oil equivalent per day (boed) in the previous quarter. Additionally, crude oil and condensate volume itself grew by 15% (barrel per day), compared to the same period last year. We expect this trend to continue in the second quarter as well with the company’s continued focus on its premium drilling locations: the Delaware Basin, the Eagle Ford, and the Powder River Basin. In the second quarter as well, we expect the company to report a significant growth in its crude oil and condensate volume, at the higher end of its guidance of 374.4-388.6 thousand barrels per day (MBbld). This compares to a crude oil and condensate volume of 334.7 MBbld reported in the same period last year. Additionally, higher commodity prices, especially that of crude oil, is expected to aid the company’s revenue growth. WTI crude oil prices averaged at approximately $68.06 per barrel in Q2 ’18, in comparison to a price of $48.18 per barrel a year ago. Crude oil prices continued to remain strong through the second quarter as a result of the sustained production cuts by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and the non-OPEC allies, and the prevalent uncertainty with respect to Iran’s oil operations. A proportionately higher share of liquids accounting for the company’s total output is also expected to remain beneficial for the company during the quarter. Overall we expect the company to deliver robust results in its second-quarter. Our key expectations from the company’s 2018 results are summarized in our interactive dashboard Q2 ’18: What To Expect From EOG Resources in 2018? You can make changes to our assumptions to arrive at your own fair price estimate for the company. What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams | Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Research Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own. 