Donald Trump is threatening even greater tariffs on Chinese imports, prompting the Asian nation to respond with its own promises — one that includes hitting American exports of liquefied natural gas and crude oil. Altogether China said it would impose $60 billion in tariffs on U.S. goods if Trump does not back down.  Trump started this war of words and China is determined to fight back. After all, the United States has become one of the world’s biggest exporters of LNG and crude oil thanks to its shale deposits and the advent of the drilling technic known as hydraulic fracturing. At the same time, China is becoming the world’s biggest importer of LNG, namely because it is trying to replace its coal use. But it can get that natural gas from other sources, like Russia or Qatar.  During the presidential campaign, Trump didn’t even know what LNG was. That is perhaps the biggest irony of them all, given that the fuel has become a linchpin of American energy independence as well as a critical source to reduce global CO2 emissions from China and elsewhere.     The United States, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, exported $3.3 billion in LNG in 2017. And next year, this country is expected to be the world’s biggest exporter of that fuel. The United States is already a major exporter, with Cheniere’s Louisiana facility sending LNG to 11 different countries. China is expected to be the biggest market at 400 billion cubic meters. It’s also the same country that has a choice of where to buy not just its LNG but also its coal. The trade dispute no doubt affects others, including Sempra Energy’s Cameron Project, Freeport LNG's facility in Freeport, Texas, Dominion Energy’s Cove Point and Southern Co.’s Elba Island.  “Considering the unreasonable U.S. demands, a trade war is an act that aims to crush China’s economic sovereignty, trying to force China to be a U.S. economic vassal,” China’s Global Times said in an editorial. “Given China’s huge market, its systemic advantage of being able to concentrate resources on big projects, its people’s tenacity in enduring hardships and its steadiness in implementing reform and opening-up policies, the country can survive a trade war.” China has vowed to hit 6,000 U.S.-made goods with tariffs. That’s about two-thirds of the stuff it imports. The editorial is in response to Trump’s bluster to up this country’s ante — raising tariffs on Chines-made goods sent to the United States from 10% to 25%, totaling $200 billion.  Boisterous Businesses  Forty-five business groups spearheaded by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce are opposing the tariffs and calling them “particularly harmful,” adding that they are jeopardizing ‘innovation.’ The move, in fact, is expected to benefit China’s European trading partners, which will step in and fill the void left by U.S. exporters. “U.S. (natural gas) exports are unlikely to make much of a dent into European and Asian markets currently serviced by Russia within the next decade,” says Hill Huntington, executive director, Energy Modeling Forum, at Stanford University, in an earlier interview. “There are other sources in the Middle East and elsewhere that may be a lot more competitive with Russian supplies than U.S. exports.” The president feels that other countries are blocking access to their markets while this country provides unfettered access to its consumers. His U.S. Trade Representative is saying that global trade rules allow each ‘sovereign nation’ to impose tariffs if they are deemed in their national interest — even those of the world’s most developed countries. Robert Lighthizer says that President Trump deems tariffs on China to be in the interest of “national security.”  For its part, China says that the World Trade Organization has long allowed developing countries to impose greater tariffs to protect their domestic industries from international competition.  And the takeaway from the U.S. business community is that the tariffs would do little to fix what the president says are unfair trade practices. In fact, it would increase prices on U.S. consumers and businesses and especially electronics and apparel — in effect, a tax, that would negate recent U.S. tax reform measures.  Altogether, the U.S. exported $1.3 trillion in manufactured goods, some of which could be placed at risk as a result of the tariffs. Gross domestic product would fall by $11 billion while financial markets would be depressed, says the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  Tariffs would “ensure that foreign companies take the place of markets that American companies, farmers and ranchers must vacate when China retaliates against U.S. tariffs.” the U.S. Chamber says.  Impetuous Nature. Long-Term Harm Behind the scenes, businesses feel that the U.S. government is acting on a whim and on the impetuous nature of the president. And while the president may believe in trade fairness, the policies are tentative and will change with “political” circumstances. Simply, Trump wants to appear to have “won” and the substance of the resolution is less concerning to him.  Some of the U.S. manufacturing and industrial community will be headed to Shanghai in November to participate in an expo — one where Chinese President Xi Jinping will speak. While their main concern right now is a trade war that would hamper their ability to expand their presence in Asia, they are also concerned about China’s energy and environmental policies as well as their personal safety; just recently, a bomb was triggered outside the U.S. embassy, although no one was injured except for the man who detonated it.  China has committed to reduce its reliance on coal — now at 66% of its electric generation portfolio. Its immediate aim, however, is to reduce that percentage to 59% and to increase the use of natural gas to 7.5%. U.S. LNG producers could capture that market, but the proposed tariffs are a threat to that  Meanwhile, Johnson & Johnson and Wal-Mart have taken pro-environment positions and have tried to enlist their supply chains to do the same, including those in China. And China has responded by implementing much tougher air quality rules, not just because it wants to clean its environment but also because it wants to ingratiate itself in the global community.  Will the ‘trade war’ and the resulting tariffs have a permanent effect on U.S.-Chinese relations? The huffing-and-puffing will continue for a while but Trump will ultimately cave-in — mainly because China has hit the U.S. heartland that voted for Trump. And once he backs down, things will cool off.  Businesses, generally, feel the Trump effect will be short-term — that more rational national leadership will eventually take the helm. The damage, though, could take years to repair, especially to America’s LNG industry.  