Two market leaders—Facebook and Netflix—fell into bear market territory after earnings misses led to steep sell-offs. These results prompted market analysts to suggest that a broader bear market could be on the way as well. Are they right? And if so, should we be preparing for the worst? They certainly could be right, but I think this prediction is premature. We could, however, see a market pullback—even a severe one—but it likely will be short-lived. Think back to late January of this year, when markets dropped by 10 percent; then there was another 10-percent drop in late 2015/early 2016, plus an 8-percent drop in mid-2015. These pullbacks weren’t small, and yet none of them derailed the upward market momentum. We currently are less than 2 percent away from all-time highs and seem to be moving higher. Market pullbacks, even corrections, are normal and, frankly, nothing to worry about. When I speak with investors, I often ask if they remember the stock market crash of 2016. No one does. And that’s the point—what seems worrying at the time is, in fact, nothing to worry about. To answer the question above, I don’t know if the analysts are right, but I also don’t care because I don’t think it will matter a couple of years from now. What the risk factors say No, I don’t worry about short-lived pullbacks, but I do worry about more serious longer-term drawdowns. While 2016 didn’t matter, 2000 and 2008 did. The real question is not whether we will see a pullback—we will and we should—but when and if we will see another bear market like those two. Economic risk factors. Fortunately, the economic signs suggest that a bear market is still some distance away. Bear markets typically come with recessions, and with strong job growth, consumer and business confidence, and consumer and business spending, there’s no recession on the horizon. I regularly track risks levels in the economy for just this reason—so we can spot a bear market coming. Other economic risk signals include rising interest rates, which we don’t see at the long end of the curve, where it really matters; and rising oil prices, which are not yet in the danger zone. Overall, the economic factors remain supportive of the financial markets. Yes, pullbacks—even severe ones like 1987—can happen with these conditions, but historically they have passed quickly. In other words, as long as the economy is solid, we have not seen a long-duration, portfolio-killing bear market. Market risk factors. Looking at the market risk factors, rather than economic ones, tells a different story, however. Valuations remain quite high, and there is a lot of margin debt in the system. Clearly, there is risk there. High risk is not the same as immediate risk, though, just as high blood pressure does not mean you will have a heart attack tomorrow. Nonetheless, the conditions for a pullback are in place, so I would not be surprised to see one. If I do, though, I will not panic about it. Again, with solid fundamentals supporting the market, any pullback is likely to be short. When to worry (hint: not yet) I typically start to pay attention—but not to panic—when the market hits the 200-day moving average. For the S&P 500 Index, this has proven to be a reliable guide to a possible trend change. Right now, the worry point is around 2,700 for the S&P 500, which is about 5 percent below where we are right now. We have not touched the 200-day moving average since April of last year, but if we do, I will take a closer look. So, will there be a pullback? Maybe. Do we care? Probably not. Do we know what to watch for just in case? We do. Remain calm and carry on.