U.S. Steel (NYSE: X) will release its second-quarter results on 1st August 2018 and conduct a conference call with analysts the following day. Consensus market estimates expect the company to post an EPS (Non-GAAP) of $1.13 and a revenue of $3.49 billion, 6% and 11% higher, respectively, than the reported numbers a year ago. The company is expected to benefit from higher steel prices during the quarter for its U.S.-based operations, however, operational issues are expected to weigh on the company’s bottom line. U.S. Steel’s Flat-Rolled division is expected to benefit largely from higher steel prices in the second quarter while its shipment volumes are expected to remain relatively flat. The recent imposition of 25% tariff on steel imports has lifted domestic steel prices significantly. One of U.S. Steel’s largest competitors, Nucor, reported a 17% year-on-year (y-o-y) increase in its average realized steel prices for the quarter and we expect to witness a similar double-digit growth in realized steel prices from U.S. Steel’s upcoming results. The steel import tariffs in the U.S. have raised the domestic demand for steel and reduced the country’s dependence on imports. Per the recent data released by the American Iron and Steel Institute, total steel imports reduced by 2.7% y-o-y during the first five months of 2018. This has remained beneficial for domestic steel producers in the U.S. However, shipments at U.S. Steel’s Flat-Rolled division are expected to remain relatively flat or even lower y-o-y as a result of an operational issue highlighted by the company in its previous quarter earnings release. The company’s bottom line is also likely to have a negative cost impact of around $30 million as a result of this operational challenge. Comprehensively, the company’s full-year shipment volumes for its flat-rolled division are expected to remain relatively flat due to its ongoing asset revitalization program. The company expects strong performance from its European segment due to improved market conditions in the region. However, the recent trade war may have had a negative impact on the division’s overall performance and we wait to learn further about the same from the company’s upcoming earnings release. Additionally, the company remains confident about the performance of its Tubular segment with the persistent strength in crude oil prices throughout the second quarter. Our key expectations from the company’s 2018 results are highlighted in our interactive dashboard analysis :Q2’18: What To Expect From U.S. Steel In 2018?. You can modify our assumptions to arrive at your own fair price estimate for the company. What’s behind Trefis? See How it’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams | Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Research Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own.