Contagion isn’t just for people. Financial markets are being roiled by the collapse of the Turkish lira, as President Erdogan does his impression of King Canute, trying to hold back a tide of bearish sentiment. Unfortunately for him, global markets are no more obedient than the tide was for Canute (aka Knut), and the lira has dropped 40% so far this year against the U.S. dollar, creating serious fears about the broader economic impact. Could this be rather like the 1998 Southeast Asian recession, which was a contributing factor in the oil price crash that year, when prices touched $11, albeit briefly? Given that Turkey uses only 1 million barrels per day of oil, an economic collapse in that country would not seem important to global petroleum markets and prices. The biggest question, then, is whether there will be contagion that has a greater effect than just the direct impact of lower Turkish oil demand. Compared to 2008, the hit on demand in 1998 was much smaller (see graph below). Still, demand was more than 1.5 million barrels per day lower in 1998 than in 1997, which translates into an inventory build of over 600 million barrels, an enormous amount. Worse, global production in 1998 grew by 1.5 mb/d, mostly in OPEC as a result of overproduction in Venezuela, the knock-on effect of cheating on other OPEC countries, and finally, the Saudi reaction late in 1997, which triggered a price war within the group.    But the contagion was concentrated in Asia (at least in terms of oil demand). Although data on consumption in the smaller Asian economies during that period is unavailable, non-OECD Asian consumption dropped by about 0.3 mb/d from previous growth rates (see graph below), while China slowed by a mere 0.1 mb/d (roughly margin of error) reflecting its much greater independence from the Southeast Asian economy. Korea was the worst affected, dropping from about 0.2 mb/d growth to a -0.3 mb/d decline in 1998, as a banking scandal caused economic contraction, naturally worsened by the slowdown in neighboring economies. Japan too was affected, although only slightly, and Australia barely at all. In effect, it appears as if 1 mb/d of the 1.5 mb/d drop in consumption (relative to year-earlier growth) was in Asia, even though that region represented only 10% of global oil demand, giving some sense of the limits to that contagion—at least in that instance. Could current economic turmoil in Turkey and a few other countries have a similar impact? Possibly, but probably not. For one thing, Turkey’s trade is mostly with large European economies that will not be seriously affected by a reduction in imports, so that the regional impact should be much less than in 1998. (Jordan, for instance, exports only $100 million to Turkey; Iraq’s exports are much larger but dominated by oil, which should easily find other markets.) The most important concern is whether financial gearing comes into play, that is, the problems in Turkey are multiplied because its borrowing might stress banks in other parts of Europe, such as Spain, severely enough to trigger an economic slowdown. Given reported indebtedness to banks in France, Italy and Spain of about $150 billion (roughly half to Spanish banks), a Turkish default would certainly hit the euro zone banking sector, but should be manageable. Psychological contagion could be a bigger problem, though, as investors begin to shy away from all countries that appear heavily indebted. Reports that countries like Pakistan and Sri Lanka are beginning to suffer from the borrowing to finance Chinese-sponsored infrastructure are worrying, except that it should be much easier to renegotiate with a sovereign state like China than commercial banks in the West, especially given the political ramifications of the Chinese Belt and Road Initiative. Unfortunately, psychological contagion is not always rational. In the past, for instance, a collapse in the Mexican peso caused selling of the Argentinian peso, even though the two economies are largely unrelated. Now, financial stresses on Argentina, Brazil and Italy, which might be tempests in a teapot normally, risk causing a stampede from emerging markets (and Italy), while concerns about the Chinese financial system, though commonplace for a decade, are growing in part because of a lack of transparency. All of which is worsened by the uncertainty created by President Trump’s volatile trade policy, where many countries and companies are unsure of their access to American markets, and retaliation threatens to restrict access to American goods. It is conceivable that a "perfect storm" of financial and trade stresses could trigger a recession, albeit it more on the order of 1998 than 2008. For the oil market then, the dangers of supply side restrictions (Iran, Libya, Venezuela) have been joined by the threat of demand weakness. Of course, since there is little correlation between them, the next year is less an either/or than a matrix of possible scenarios from a price collapse (to $40?) to a price spike ($90?). At least speculators will have a lot of action. 