Co-authors Nic Lutsey & Dan Sperling The U.S. auto industry will cede global leadership in developing vehicle technology. The Trump White House is uprooting dozens of environmental regulations. On August 2, the Trump Administration announced its latest move: to “correct” vehicle fuel-economy standards set through the national Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) and greenhouse gas emissions programs by freezing the standards from 2020 on. This reverses the widely popular deal among the Obama Administration, California, and automakers that set a path for continued vehicle improvement through 2025. Earlier in the month, we shared our initial take regarding the creative math used by the Trump Administration to justify the regulatory rollback. We explained that freezing CAFE would lead to large increases in oil use and greenhouse gas emissions, not to mention regulatory uncertainty for automakers and increased costs for consumers. After digging further into the details of the proposal, we’ve found yet another element that strikes us: Freezing CAFE will be highly problematic for technology innovation and investment in the U.S. Let us explain. The first thing you have to know is that CAFE sets different fuel-economy standards for vehicles of different sizes. Large SUVs and pickups generally face weaker standards, while smaller cars face stricter ones. But all vehicles, regardless of size, must reduce emissions and fuel use by roughly the same percentage (about 3% per year) under the deal forged by the Obama Administration. This motivates automakers to offer more technologies across vehicle types. It’s been working. Next time you’re walking through parking lots or sitting in traffic, take a look at the backs of the cars and trucks you pass. You’ll see branding for all sorts of new fuel-efficient technologies, such as BMW’s EfficientDynamics, Ford’s EcoBoost, General Motors’ EcoTec, Hyundai’s Blue Drive, Mazda’s SkyActiv, Nissan’s Pure Drive, and Toyota’s Hybrid Synergy Drive. These include more advanced engines, transmissions, and hybrid systems that eke more miles out of each gallon of fuel. Continually ratcheting up CAFE standards ensures the transition from R&D to commercial scale production happens, and happens broadly across the market. Freezing CAFE would stifle technological progress…a lot. The figure below, taken from Trump’s National Highway Traffic Safety Administration analysis, compares projected annual sales in 2026 for various technologies under currently planned standards with projected sales if standards are frozen at 2020 levels. We can see that the regulatory rollback will leave us with 7 million vehicles with turbochargers in 2026 instead of 11 million, and 0.4 million hybrids instead of 4 million. You can also see considerable lost opportunities with other efficiency technologies. The differences are stark indeed. Freezing CAFE standards disrupts automaker and supplier investment. If the proposed freeze actually happens, companies that lagged in making investments will be rewarded, those that led will be punished, and all will be discouraged from further investment. For a frank testimonial from a supplier investing in efficiency technologies, see this case study article of how disruptive the loosening of efficiency rules would be, and how it would erode U.S. leadership on advanced technologies. The implications are huge. The BlueGreen Alliance estimates that over $70 billion was invested in fuel-efficiency technology at U.S. plants from 2010 to 2017 (now, by the way, supporting something like 288,000 jobs). To give a sense of scale, the original Obama rule in 2012 estimated that at least $140 billion worth of these efficiency technologies would end up on new vehicles by 2025. The rollback puts additional investments in jeopardy. The impact on innovation will be especially dramatic for electric vehicles (EVs). The Trump Administration’s proposal revokes the right of California and 12 other states to retain their pioneering Zero Emission Vehicle (ZEV) and emissions standards. The ZEV regulation, which requires automakers to sell a certain number of zero-emission vehicles, has been cited by the Center for American Progress as the single most effective policy tool for increasing market share of plug-in electric vehicles. The ZEV regulation has been crucial in maintaining U.S. leadership in EV technology. Take it away and the future competitiveness of the U.S. auto industry is at risk in the rapidly growing global EV market. Simply put, the auto industry is a global industry. Every other major auto market—China, Europe, and Japan—has more aggressive requirements in place than the United States to reduce fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions. Ignore this reality and we could see a repeat of the failures of the U.S. auto industry in the 1970s (when Japanese automakers nearly destroyed U.S. automakers who had become complacent and lagged in fuel-efficiency innovation) and in the late 2000s (when oil prices soared and the carmakers were again unprepared to sell energy-efficient vehicles). It’s hard for us to see how freezing CAFE helps the auto industry in the long run, when experts agree that the future will be dominated by electric cars and other fuel-efficient vehicles. Technological innovation is the lifeblood of any industry, and the broader economy with it. The Trump Administration’s proposed regulatory rollback would grind all this innovation to a halt. Opinions expressed in this piece are the personal viewpoint of the authors. Nic Lutsey directs U.S. policy and electric vehicle research at the International Council on Clean Transportation. See his work here: https://www.theicct.org/staff/nic-lutsey. Follow on Twitter: @NicLutsey, @TheICCT Dan Sperling is the Distinguished Blue Planet Prize Professor of Engineering and Environmental Science at the University of California, Davis, and lead author of Three Revolutions: Steering Automated, Shared, and Electric Vehicles to a Better Future. Follow on Twitter: @DanSperling_ITS, @ITS_UCDavis, @3Rev_ITSDavis