Since the beginning of 2017, the managers of Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund have approached Elon Musk and his iconoclastic Tesla Inc. (NYSE:TSLA) numerous times in an effort to acquire a stake in the innovative all-electric auto manufacturer. So what does a mammoth petro-state want with a company determined to “accelerate the world’s transition to a sustainable energy future” -- and put Big Oil out of business? The answer to this dialectic is Financial Planning 101: portfolio diversification. Not to mention Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s (MBS) love of everything new and shiny. The Kingdom has launched a technological, financial, political, and cultural development program known as “Saudi Arabia Vision 2030.” One policy goal of the ambitious roadmap is to decouple fossil fuels from the nation’s identity, instead promoting the digitization, privatization, and decarbonization of the Saudi economy. Unemployment rates remain high – especially among Saudi youth – which can lead to political and social volatility (remember the Arab Spring of 2010 - 2011). Vision 2030 aims to accommodate the burgeoning working-age population by growing as-of-yet underdeveloped sectors like tech, services, and renewable energy. As it stands today, 50% of Saudi government revenue comes from oil sales. According to the IMF, the Kingdom’s fiscal breakeven point per barrel of oil is in the $83 - $87 range, meaning that today’s oil prices are insufficient to meet its budgetary needs. Saudi Arabia has projected a budget deficit of 195 billion riyals ($52 billion) in 2018, or 7.3% of GDP, down from 230 billion riyals last year, which is unsustainable in the long term. What better way to hedge your portfolio than to bet on the company that wants to make your main asset obsolete? Last week, Tesla CEO Elon Musk took to Twitter announcing his intent to take Tesla private with financial support from the Saudi Public Investment Fund (PIF) at $420 per share -- giving Tesla Inc. a $70 billion valuation. According to Musk, the move would free Tesla from shareholder scrutiny and allow the company to better protect information about its business practices. While the funding was not as ‘secure’ as Musk had hoped, Riyadh does hold 5% of Tesla stock as of July 31st. It is highly likely that PIF will pursue opportunities to invest further once Musk is cleared of any potential wrongdoing by the SEC regarding his impulsive twitter announcement, especially if MSB remains enthusiastic about the deal. PIF’s minority stake in Tesla Inc. is just one piece of the Kingdom’s expanding renewables portfolio. KSA plans to have 3.45 gigawatts of renewable (solar and wind) power online by 2020, with $7 billion invested in green projects just this year. Total renewables capacity is expected to reach 9 gigawatts by 2023. Having Tesla’s expertise would boost Saudi’s budding romance with solar and electric power. Saudi Arabia's commitment to going green is further illustrated by their plans for Neom, a $500 billion economic hub in the country’s Red Sea province of Tabuk. The futuristic mega-city would be more than 12 times the size of Tokyo and is designed to run solely on renewable generation. There, non-fossil fuel sectors would take center stage, encompasisng everything from biotech to entertainment and manufacturing. Tech giants like Amazon (NYSE:AMZN) and aerospace powerhouse Lockheed Martin (NYSE:LMT) are being courted to invest in Neom and other parts of the Kingdom to set the precedent for economic modernization. The Neom model of renewable energy generation could serve as a blueprint for the rest of the country's power sector. Riyadh enjoys an impressive 300 hours of sunlight per month making it an ideal candidate for solar photovoltaic (PV) power. Owing to its overabundance of oil, the Kingdom is one of the few nations which still burns crude to produce electricity despite the method's gross inefficiencies (an astounding 40% of the country's power came from oil in 2016). Less oil used in power production will mean cleaner air and more supplies available for export. Moreover, the Saudis are hopeful that a stable flow of domestic renewable energy can help it cope with increasingly-volatile oil market fluctuations. The severe oil price swings of 2014-2015 actually catalyzed the launch of the Vision 2030 diversification strategy. One of the key tests of Saudi Arabia’s reform efforts is the government’s plan to sell off a 5% stake of Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest energy producer, through an initial public offering (IPO) proposed earlier this year. MSB initially touted a company valuation of $2 trillion – twice that of Apple. But due to a lack of appetite from investors, the proposal remains shelved until 2019. If realized, the IPO would help raise cash, cover budget deficits, boost Saudi diversification, and pave the way for deals like the one with Tesla to set the course for future development. The kingdom’s economy is set to expand by 2 percent in 2018 according to the Institute of International Finance. The talks between the IPF and Tesla indicate a bold hedging strategy by the KSA Government. Focusing investment in Tesla would enhance Saudi expertise in solar power and simultaneously grow its own market for electric cars. A shift to electric vehicles and greater renewable power generation will also facilitate the planned draw-down of Saudi gasoline subsidies, a politically charged policy which amounts to billions of dollars in lost revenue each year. A Saudi capital infusion into Tesla Inc. would provide a life raft for the Kingdom’s oil-laden economy, and solve Elon's recurrent problems with critical analysts and demanding shareholders. Who said oil and Musk don’t mix? James C. Grant, Program Manager at International Market Analysis Ltd, contributed to this article 