Companies, cities, and even entire countries claim that they are either 100% renewable (or very close). In both the US and Europe, there are even academic food fights over if, how, or why “it could happen here.” These claims were highlighted recently in an op-ed skirmish between the Texas Public Policy Foundation, a conservative think tank, and the Mayor of Georgetown, TX. Their back-and-forth dialogue has created a great case study on what it really means to be 100% renewable in today’s system and why it is so easy to get tripped up on words and phrases that really don’t matter. A few years ago, Georgetown, TX (population: ~67,000) decided to obtain 100% of its electricity from renewable sources, namely wind and solar. This decision was notable partly because it was one of the first municipalities to do so, and partly because Georgetown’s politics swing further to the right than one might expect given such a move. The irony of a conservative town going green has been just too much to resist.    Now, Georgetown wasn’t overtly trying to go green, but that was the cheapest and most secure option for local residents and businesses. While renegotiating a new power purchase contract city leaders found, to some’s surprise, that they could get a better deal by sourcing all of its power from wind and solar. And they could lock in the cheaper prices for 20 years – particularly appealing to an aging local population living on fixed incomes. So, did Georgetown, TX really go 100% renewable? In a way yes, and in a way, no. The truth is more complicated, of course. But in the end, the semantics really doesn’t matter. In the TPPF op-ed, Mr. González is critical of Georgetown’s decision, and uses it as a springboard to trot out some of the same tired tropes about renewables that pop up from time to time. Let’s get these facts straight by answering a few basic questions. If any company or city uses electricity that comes from non-renewable sources, can they still be “100% renewable”? Yes, they can. They can still be 100%, or 80%, or 30% renewable because renewable energy contracts are actually financial contracts that do not require physical delivery of the electricity to the buyer. This can happen because we have an impressive electricity grid that takes electricity from all kinds of sources and distributes it to the homes and businesses who consume it. Think of it like this: you deposit cash at the bank on Monday and then withdraw cash from an ATM on Thursday. The paper money you’ve withdrawn are not the exact same bills you deposited, but it makes no difference at all, cash is cash. It would be silly, and require a more expensive banking system for everyone, for any individual depositor to demand that they get the exact same bills on Thursday that they deposited at a different location on Monday. Say a company called Awesome Inc. consumes 1,000 megawatt-hours (MWhs) of electricity per year and they want to go 100% renewable. Awesome Inc. could enter into a virtual Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with a wind or solar farm, say VentusSolis Inc., and agree to buy 1,000 MWhs of electricity per year for 20 years. This agreement guarantees VentusSolis a payment stream for which it can secure the financing needed to build the project. VentusSolis builds the project and 1,000 MWhs of electricity is put on the grid per year, displacing 1,000 MWhs of electricity that would have been supplied by some other power plant, fueled by natural gas or coal, perhaps. In this example, Awesome Inc. pays for 1,000 MWhs that VentusSolis produced and Awesome Inc. is 100% renewable energy. But in the end, it doesn’t matter who actually consumes the electricity produced from the wind farms or solar arrays; once it’s on the grid, it’s all the same at the wall socket.  To be clear, without energy storage and for times when the sun is not shining and the wind is not blowing, 100% renewable energy consumers rely on other, perhaps non-renewable, sources for their energy. But they make up the difference when the renewables come back online. Are the rest of us subsidizing the “100% renewable” club? Yes and no – the truth is that most energy sectors get some kind of subsidy. While there are direct federal subsidies for wind and solar projects, they are being phased out and will expire in the coming years. But these are not the only subsides out there. Texas provides about $3 billion worth of subsides to the energy sector per year, with about 2/3 of that support going to oil and gas through favorable tax codes. These subsides have no expiration date – it is rather disingenuous to talk about subsides in one sector without talking about subsidies in all sectors. Mr. González also makes the common, and erroneous, argument that every wind turbine or solar panel must be backed up with a coal or gas plant, should the wind stop or the clouds roll in. But in practice, this is just not the case. Grid operators have gotten very adept in forecasting solar and wind output, and continuously update their models as each day progresses, just like we have been doing for the demand side for over 100 years. As Texas has approached getting 20% of its electricity from wind, we have not seen an increased need for backup. In most grids, backup levels are set by the largest plant that could trip offline, usually a nuclear or coal plant. So if we wanted to reduce the (rather small already) levels of backup generation, removing those large plants would likely be the most effective way to do so, but that doesn’t mean that it would be a smart thing to do. High levels of renewable energy can increase other grid ancillary service costs, but these increased costs are typically small and can be offset by lower total energy costs. Bottom line: is 100 percent renewable doable? Getting the entire grid to be 100% renewable energy would be a tall order. There is considerable agreement among most engineers in this space that getting the grid to 80% green would be relatively easy, but that last 20% would be a lot tougher. In 2017, Texas got about 18% of its energy from wind and solar, so there is room for more growth among those sources. That said, we have other technologies (nuclear, carbon capture, etc.) that also could help us get to a low-carbon future, if that is where we decide to go. I’d prefer to see the conversation move away from insisting we get our electricity from 100% renewable sources, because that really misses the point. The climate isn’t threatened by what technologies we use, it is threatened by the emissions from those technologies. When we focus just on technologies, that restricts the tools we can use. However, the more tools we have at our disposal, the better chance we have to develop solutions to our energy problems in a meaningful way. 