The ruling Socialists United party (PSUV) of Venezuela has a new plan: devalue the official rate of the bolivar while knowing well that the black market rate is so much better for those in the know—as in the government and military. Almost by design, they have created the best currency arbitrage rate on God's green earth. The biggest change in the forex market was an elimination of penalties for operating in the parallel forex market. (Read: black market now legal.) The new arbitrage will make some rich in useless bolivars, but the new forex (called the Sovereign Bolivar now) is unlikely to fix an economy in dire straits. Venezuela revalued its currency on Monday. Following at least three years of the bolivar losing nearly all of its value against the dollar and locals either printing their own neighborhood currency or bartering, PSUV opted for new banknotes to solve the problem. They took off five zeroes, because—as we now know—the bolivar faces five-digit inflation on an annual basis. They can say the new bolivar is worth one dollar if they want to. At the rate the economy is going, it will be worth $0.10 by September 30. The move devalued the bolivar by a whopping 96%, after it had already fallen by at least half that over the last three years. The new exchange is 6 million bolivars to one dollar. President Nicolas Maduro can now claim that socialism has succeeded in making everyone millionaires. Maduro was on an economic policy rampage last week. Besides a new currency, he enacted new gasoline subsidies only targeted to low-income individuals and raised the corporate tax rate. The higher tax rate means more tax evasion. In addition to raising taxes for businesses, he increased the minimum wage. Reuters reporters in Caracas reported late Monday that the new economic policy initiative was leading more locals to plan their exit. Most see it as a failure less than three days after going into effect. “I am looking for flights to leave on Wednesday, any way I can,” a man named Jose Narvaez, a 43-year-old carpenter, told Reuters. “I am sure this is going to get worse because the man’s ideas lack all logic,” he says of Maduro. Venezuela has lost over a million people in the last year to Colombia alone as the economic crisis has turned into a migrant crisis for the country’s neighbors. Socialist Recovery Plan: Más Socialismo Venezuela announced its “economic recovery program” last month. It was a series of policy changes beyond forex intended to stabilize the worst economy in the Americas. The World Bank estimates another year of economic contraction. And despite higher prices for oil, PdVSA—the state-run oil firm—is struggling to pay its debts. It defaulted on some bond issues in the fourth quarter of 2017. Oil production is the country's cash cow, and production levels are roughly half where they were four years ago. “We think these new measures are insufficient,” says Arthur Carvalho, an economist with Morgan Stanley. “The Sovereign Bolivar is unlikely to help rein in hyperinflation.” The new currency is anchored to the petro, the country’s recently created cryptocurrency that is reportedly backed by the Orinoco Oil Belt’s Ayacucho I oil field with a nominal value equivalent to the price of a barrel of oil. Via executive order, Maduro’s “yes men” and “yes women” in PSUV’s Constituent Assembly repealed the Illicit Foreign Transactions Law, which could be kindly viewed as an attempt to move to a more market-determined forex, or more realistically viewed as a move to legalize the old black market. This allows PdVSA to trade currency between the mercado paralelo and the official market after many years of having had to trade dollars for an overvalued, fake exchange rate set by the central bank. With oil production in decline, look for PdVSA to start booking more profits in forex markets, Morgan Stanley analysts believe. Venezuela is not just facing an economic crisis. It is facing a political and social crisis unlike any other in the region. Violent crime is on the rise. Kidnappings are on the rise. The country is a complete disaster, overrun in part by petty criminal gangs, drug lords and Marxist revolutionaries supported by Cuban money. Many Venezuelans consider PSUV a criminal enterprise. In 2017, family members of President Maduro were arrested in New York on drug charges. They were both sentenced to 18 years in a federal lockup near in central Florida. Venezuela’s ex-vice president, Tareck El Aissami, is considered a drug trafficker and is sanctioned by Treasury. OPEC member Venezuela is mainly exporting social calamity today. Brazil is sending troops to the border town of Pacaraima in the Amazon where Venezuelan migrant camps were attacked and set ablaze following reports that a local restaurant owner had been badly beaten by rowdy Venezuelans. There has been growing animosity toward Venezuelan migrants entering Brazil recently. Ecuador is also close to shutting its border to stop the tide of Venezuelan refugees. The U.S. is doing its part by sending a mercy-class hospital ship to Colombia to help with Venezuelan migrants. 