Republican war hawk Lindsey Graham is revamping Russian sanctions in the Senate, this time threatening to do what many in the market have feared—banning investments in Russian bonds and lending to its biggest banks, namely Sberbank and VTB Bank. Many of the Senators who worked on the passing of the Magnitsky Act with expat American investor Bill Browder are behind this latest bill. Instead of calling it the very rhetorical Defending American Security from Kremlin Aggression Act of 2018, I'll call this the DeBRA Act, as in the Don't Buy Russia Anything Act. While the Republicans like to talk up election meddling and Ukraine, a bigger reason for the new sanctions is best understood by reading the fine print. See: Lindsey Graham: Wrong On Everything — Foreign Policy The bill is likely to get a majority to back it in Congress, making it as veto-proof as the last one in Aug. 2017. Russian stocks did not suffer back then because the market was looking for language sanctioning ownership of Russian securities. This latest bill does that. Americans would be banned from owning sovereign debt, which may include quasi-sovereigns owned by the already-sanctioned state-controlled lenders and the big energy firms. The bill does not ban ownership of equities, but bans on debt mean the sanctioned firms that make up the lion’s share of the Market Vectors Russia ETF would not be able to tap debt markets in dollars and may be hard-pressed to find euro lenders. This would trap those companies into Russian capital markets, which are still quite thin and have much higher interest rates. It is unclear if Russia would move to cryptocurrency issues (Gazprom is considering, backed by oil), or partner with China. The U.S. Senators also fired two warning shots against the European Union. It specifically threatens action on NATO countries for buying some types of Russian military equipment. It also sanctions transactions related to investment in energy projects supported by Russia state-owned entities: read, Nord Stream II, the Gazprom pipeline being built in cahoots with the likes of Royal Dutch Shell, Wintershall and OMV. The bill also makes it impossible for Trump to pull the U.S. out of NATO, now requiring a near full vote of Congress. Russia’s medium-term outlook has deteriorated, Barclays Capital analysts believe. Barclays Capital analysts forecast a slight economic rebound in the second quarter, with third-quarter growth to maintain the pace. But if the U.S. goes ahead with further sanctions, and there is certainly an appetite to do so, the medium-term outlook worsens. They are most concerned about the proposed measures against Russia’s major state-owned banks. “In the worst case, it could limit banks’ ability to operate with international financial institutions globally,” says Liza Ermolenko, an emerging Europe economist for BarCap in London. Recent data showed that Russia’s real GDP growth picked up to 1.8% year over year in the second quarter, up from 1.3% in the first. More economic data is out this week. The bigger picture, however, shows that growth is disappointing and this is unlikely to change any time soon. If anything, downside risks to the outlook are on the rise as the prospect of further sweeping sanctions grows. Three years ago, investors attending a VTB Capital conference in Moscow predicted the sanctions would be made permanent. They were right. But while investors may have already priced in sanctions-forever, they might not be pricing in the endgame, which to Senators like Graham is popular upheaval against Putin and a changing of the guard in the Kremlin. It’s a fat chance. Russia is unlikely to ever admit to election meddling, which activates new sanctions against them, so the Russians find themselves in the thorny spot of being condemned whether they are meddling or not meddling. Lastly, Russia is unlikely to back out of protecting Bashar Assad and risk another victim of Arab-world regime change. The two countries have had a long-standing military agreement since Soviet times. Senator Graham’s draft bill was introduced into Congress last week. In Barclays’ words, it “contains a number of drastic measures” designed to impede Russian access to global capital markets. 