The U.S. – China trade war got a bit more interesting Monday as Beijing announced that it would exempt U.S. oil from its latest round of retaliatory sanctions. Despite numerous threats from The People’s Republic to impose punitive import duties on West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude – a response to the Trump Administration’s July tariffs targeting $36 billion in Chinese products – oil is safe, for now. Other U.S. energy exports were not so lucky. U.S. liquified natural gas (LNG), coal, and refined petroleum products such as diesel and gasoline, will join $16 billion in American goods expected to be hit with a 25% import duty effective August 23rd. Beijing’s tariff mandate is a tit-for-tat rejoinder to the second tranche of tariffs levied by the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) last week, which targets – you guessed it – $16 billion in PRC products with a 25% import duty. The Chinese are nothing if not proportionate in their retribution.    So why was a sanction exclusion made for oil but not other energy resources? China is just not prepared to further jeopardize its already precarious oil-supply situation. Its gas position is much more stable. The United States plays a relatively small role in China’s overall gas balance, as the country receives most of its imports via pipeline from Russia and Central Asia or through top LNG players Qatar and Australia. US gas shipped from Cheniere’s (NYSE:LNG) Sabine Pass facility in Louisiana, and Dominion Energy’s (NYSE:D) Cove Point facility in Maryland accounts for just 6% of China’s total consumption. And with a gas market that is currently oversaturated, Chinese importers can readily replace U.S. gas: Qatar, Australia, and other LNG suppliers will be happy to eat up US market share should 25% tariffs kick in. Reliable oil supplies are not so readily available, however. China is the world’s largest oil buyer, a title they claimed from the United States in 2017. Of the 13 million barrels of oil the country consumers per day, it imports more than 9 million from foreign producers. This overreliance on crude imports makes Chinese policymakers hypersensitive to potential oil supply disruptions. Beijing rightly understands that the only way to bolster its energy security is through diversification of suppliers, which is precisely why the (now oil-rich) United States has become such a prominent trade partner as of late. Chinese refiners have been steadily increasing their consumption of high-grade American light, sweet, crude over the past year. In June, Unipec, the trading arm of China’s Sinopec (NYSE:SHI) and world’s largest refiner by volume, imported a record 15 million barrels of American WTI. By comparison, China imported just 4.2 million barrels of U.S. crude in June of 2017. Heavyweight U.S. Shale operators selling out of the Texas Gulf coast like ConocoPhillips (NYSE:COP) and EOG Resources (NYSE:EOG) have been happy to oblige. China now accounts for 20% of America’s foreign crude sales, placing the energy-hungry nation well ahead of Canada as the U.S.' number one export destination. Between January and July of this year, Chinese purchases of U.S. crude averaged 330,000 barrels per day – a value of almost $1 billion per month – or roughly 4% of the country’s imports. While this figure may seem small, it represents a 200 fold increase from 2016 levels. To endanger a promising source of the critical commodity at a time when the Chinese economy is slowing would be foolish. Chinese leadership understands this. Furthermore, the initial plan to sanction U.S. crude came at a time when Unipec was reducing its purchases from Saudi Arabia – China’s largest supplier – over a pricing discrepancy. To add to this, potential supply disruptions from Iran – owing to US sanctions – and Venezuela – embroiled in a historic crisis, made such a move increasingly risky. All at a time when imports from the United States have been steadily growing. This puts China’s refiners in a vulnerable position. Subsequently, Mainland refiners – led by Unipec – were able to lobby the Ministry of Commerce to remove U.S. crude from its June sanctions list. Beijing decided to change the list of tariffs “after consulting with industry associations and corporations to protect the interests of domestic consumers and companies,” per a statement posted on the Ministry of Finance’s website. The crude exclusion will also give Chinese refiners negotiating leverage vis-à-vis other suppliers who might otherwise seek to take advantage of reduced U.S. barrels. In an environment of rising crude prices, unreliable foreign producers, and significant domestic economic headwinds, Beijing is simply not willing to gamble with its U.S. oil chips - yet. If the trade war continues on its current trajectory, however, punitive sanctions against U.S. crude are an unfortunate possibility. There are no real winners in a trade war. As retaliatory measures escalate between the world’s two largest economies, both sides should heed the old Chinese saying: He who seeks revenge should remember to dig two graves. James C. Grant, Program Manager at International Market Analysis Ltd, contributed to this article.   