Turkey: Welcome to Trump’s trade war. Though this latest volume of trade tariffs and sanctions has nothing to do with saving American manufacturing and everything to do with the release of an American evangelical the Turks believe wanted to derail their government, Trump seems willing to dig in. Turkish leader Recep Erdogan only has a few players who can save him. One has already thrown him a lifeline. He needs more. Over the weekend, the Trump administration rejected Turkey’s deal to tie the release pastor Andrew Brunson to a bailout for a major Turkish bank called Halkbank, currently facing major fines for doing business with Iran in dollars. Marketwatch reported that the White House rejected the lifting of Iran sanctions fines in exchange for Brunson. It looks like the U.S. will impose further sanctions on Turkey this week. On August 10, following failed talks to free Burnson, Trump increased tariffs on Turkey aluminum to 20% from 10% and steel to 50% from 25%. Turkey sells about $1 billion in steel and aluminum to the U.S.    Now is not the time to dip into the MSCI Turkey (TUR) fund. The ETF is down 54% since its high reached on January 26. “In terms of desperation, we don’t see Turkey’s problems yet at Greek debt crisis levels circa 2010,” says Vladimir Signorelli, founder of Bretton Woods Research in New Jersey. Back then, when the European Central Bank, European Union and the International Monetary Fund all agreed to bail out Greece, the price on 5-year credit default swaps signaled a roughly 65% probability of default. Turkey’s default probabilities are currently between 20%-25%, up from 16% in the first quarter. Here’s how Turkey’s potential options for aid shape up at the moment, based on a report by Bretton Woods published on August 16. The Russians: The relationship between Erdogan and Vladimir Putin has been on the rocks before. Putin said Erdogan was helping to fund ISIS in Syria by buying oil that the terrorist gang stole. Erdogan shot down a Russian plane, killing its pilot. This is not entirely a rock-solid friendship. “Moscow is the least likely to come through,” writes Signorelli. Worth noting, Russia’s Gazprom has another one of its Ukraine alternative natural gas pipelines being built in Turkey. There is big business on the line here for the Russians who may be willing to lend a hand if it looks like Erdogan may not be able to continue with the Turkish Stream gas line. For foreign policy wonks, if Putin really wants to get NATO’s goat, coming to the rescue of a NATO member is kudos for Putin. The Europeans:  Although not mentioned in the Bretton Woods report, Turkey holds tens of thousands of Syrian refugees. It should be considered leverage against Europe. Turkey could conceivably beg for more aid for holding those refugees, or simply say they don’t have the time and energy to spend taking care of them anymore. It’s a tool Erdogan can use to his favor, even as Europe pays for a chunk of that cost anyway. Due to Turkey’s location and its effective wall against a migrant tidal wave into Europe, almost “all of the impacts of the Trump Administration’s war with Turkey falls to Europe,” Signorelli writes. EU banks are more exposed to Turkey than American banks. Turkey is a low-cost, weak-currency manufacturing center for industrial Europe. This is no Greece. Moreover, Turkey is kind of like a shadow member of the European Union. But because it is not a full-fledged member, the European Central Bank can throw it no bones. However, the ECB might implore the Fed to conduct operations that essentially reflate the dollar, giving the Turkish lire a little breathing room. The Chinese: Beijing could offer Turkey a “substantial lifeline,” according to Bretton Woods Research. A rescue operation would help stitch Turkey into China’s Belt and Road initiative at a very key geographic point on the Eurasian landmass. But China being China, Xi Jinping might only lend a hand with strings attached. Greece’s sale of the Piraeus port to the Chinese in 2016 for 368 million euros was a firesale. Turkey has some nice commercial real estate, steel and energy that could easily interest China providing the government is willing to sell it at a discount to cover costs elsewhere. And last but definitely not least, the Qataris: The Qataris are Erdogan’s best bet, says Signorelli. Erdogan is personally close to the emir, Tamim bin Hamad al Thani. Erdogan is believed to keep a large proportion of his own personal assets in Doha banks. Turkey maintains troops in Qatar as a defense against the Saudis—even as Turkey seeks better ties with Riyadh, an effort that may now fall by the wayside. (No, the Saudis won’t help Turkey.) Last week, Qatar pledged to invest $15 billion in Turkish financial markets and banks. It was the first major move in support of Erdogan. If the crisis worsens, Qatar can be counted on to lend some more support, followed by China and Europe in a close second. The Russians, only as it relates to Turkish Stream and keeping that project alive. The Turkish government responded to U.S. tariffs by adding new duties on Made in America goods. According to S&P Global Market Intelligence, the products targeted by Turkey accounted to $1.57 billion of U.S. exports in the 12 months ending June 30. The largest product groups targeted are coal ($379 million) and petroleum coke ($293 million) as well as nuts ($367 million) and cars ($62 million). Turkey’s move to hike tariffs on coal could backfire, though. A weakened currency makes coal all that much more expensive, according to Wood Mackenzie. They said the high costs of imported coal in Turkish lira terms puts at risk a few million tons of metallurgical and thermal coal imports from several countries, particularly the U.S. “Even if Turkey relaxes rules sufficiently to allow the use of low-cost, high-sulfur coal, the retaliatory tariffs the European country has imposed on U.S. coal will negate their cost advantage,” Wood Mackenzie research director Andy Roberts writes.   