The recently concluded earnings season turned out to be mixed bag for oil and gas majors, with one notable exception – BP (LON:BP). The company delivered a sterling set of quarterly results and has been unveiling a series of eye-catching announcements for much of the current calendar year. The developments give existing and potential investors much to be positive about. Towards the second quarter of 2017, BP was among my stock picks as a nailed-on 'buy' with a 12-month U.K. share price target of 550p. Over the stated period, the company not only outperformed its peers and but beat also the price target with time to spare. Relatively higher oil prices and increased output helped BP quadruple its second quarter underlying replacement cost profit, the company's definition of net income, to $2.8 billion up from $0.7 billion over the same quarter last year, as revealed in July.    Based on public statements, portfolio optimization efforts and developments at the oil major, I maintain that 'buy' sentiment and believe BP is well poised to match or cap a share price level of 650p over the next 12 months. Here are five reasons to be bullish: Production uptick and the U.S. 'Shale Gale' ride BP's output in the first six months of 2018 came in at 3.662 million barrels of oil equivalent per day (boepd), up from 3.544 million (boepd) over the same period a year ago. The company shows clear signs of moving onward and upward. On July 27, BP revealed it is buying $10.5 billion worth of U.S. shale assets from BHP Billiton, the blue chip miner that's had a troubling time managing them since purchase back in 2011. The acquisition is BP's biggest since 1999. In pure barrels of oil equivalent terms, the acquisition will increase BP's U.S. onshore oil and gas resources by 57%. That would be 190,000 boepd in additional output; split as 90,000 boepd from the Eagle Ford, 60,000 boepd from Haynesville and last but not the least 40,000 boepd from the Permian. The acquisition is a massive impact statement from BP as all three plays point to a quicker monetization of barrels compared to conventional offshore oil and gas plays that take years to yield. Furthermore, make no mistake; BP can most certainly manage the assets way better than BHP Billiton did. Moving on from Deepwater Horizon litigation Even though it is still paying the $65 billion bill in clean-up and penalty costs resulting from the disaster, market consensus and vibes from BP suggest the company is putting the troubles of the 2010 Deepwater Horizon accident and the Gulf of Mexico oil spill behind it. The saga weighed on the company for nearly five financial years, causing divestments across the board, as it attempted to get a handle on things. However, since the start of 2016, many in the investor community view the oil major to be growing in confidence in its ability to manage and put the fallout behind it. Putting a figure on it, based on the conjecture of rating agencies and market projections, BP's spill damages are likely to fall from an average of $7 to 8 billion per year to less than $1 billion from 2020-21. If that turns out to be the case, BP's free cash-flow (FCF) exceeds this. Upstream portfolio optimisation Back in July, commenting on his company's U.S. shale move, BP Chief Executive Bob Dudley described it as "a transformational acquisition" and "world class addition" to the company's portfolio. That portfolio has become among the best in the oil and gas business in recent years, with the oil major proving itself to be deft at shifting and bagging upstream assets. Buying shale assets, divesting in Alaska, going big on natural gas, remaining a key participant in Gulf of Mexico oil block auctions, cutting operations in the North Sea yet revealing two new finds in the mature prospect – BP has seen and done it all. The company was also deemed to have had "best-in-class" lifting costs in 2017, according global analysis and advisory firm Rystad Energy. For instance, BP's $6 billion investment in the Khazzan Phase 1 and Makarem projects in Oman highlighted its "execution excellence" by achieving greenfield costs below $5 per barrel of oil equivalent. With upstream on the up, as a sweetener for shareholders, BP lifted its dividend by 2.5% in the second quarter. It is the first such increase since 2014, offering a higher yield (of 5.44%) and better cash returns. New ventures, innovation and downstream fine-tuning  Alongside signature moves in upstream, sit strategic low carbon and downstream overtures. Back in February, at the time of the publication of its 2017 annual results that pointed to a 24% annualized uptick in downstream profits, BP's Chief Scientist Dr Angela Strank told me the oil major is playing a "longer wavelength game" underpinned by emerging technologies, scientific agility and a robust downstream portfolio. "In recent times we have divested a number of refineries, but our current focus is on eight refineries around the world that are really world class in terms of their operations and complexity. We've improved the reliability of our assets, and turned around our petrochemicals business to be resilient at any point in the cycle which maybe it wasn’t in the past," she added. The company has strategically entered retail fuel markets in Mexico and China. Efforts also range from creating biosynthetic lubricants (Castrol Edge) to more efficient fuels (BP Ultimate), digital apps for aviation support like FlyVictor and RocketRoute to Tricoya, a consortium project that facilitates acetylation of wood chips for use in the fabrication of panel products such as medium density fibreboard and particle-boards. Its venture Lightsource BP, in which the company has a 43% stake and is already the largest developer and operator of utility-scale solar projects, is looking to spread its wings to India's renewable energy market. In June, BP bought Chargemaster, the UK's top electric vehicle charging firm.  CEO's commitment to lower break-even The company's moves are accompanied by prudent management coming straight from the top. If the Deepwater Horizon disaster was the trigger for a lower break-even, the oil price slump of 2015-16 served as a catalyst. BP Chief Executive Bob Dudley was the first of the big oil bosses to declare his aspiration for a $30 per barrel break-even, although several of his peers have since followed suit. Last year, at the World Petroleum Congress in Istanbul, Turkey, Dudley told me that he felt the age of $100 oil prices was an aberration, and that BP would be aiming to lower its break-even first to $50, then to the $35-40 range, and ultimately to $30 by 2021. Investors should take comfort as the top man is so vocal about an optimized portfolio and a lower break-even. In Dudley, BP has a boss who not only steadied a rocky ship but has also turned it around. The company continues to show impressive financial resilience under his leadership. The various downstream and upstream overtures, especially the $10.5 billion mammoth shale acquisition, are likely to result in a marginal increase of its gearing, or debt-to-capital, ratio. However, this will "remain" within the company’s 20% to 30% target range, according to BP. Of course, the oil major's shares trade in near tight correlation with oil (and gas) prices and in some ways present a similar level of volatility. But crude oil benchmarks have oscillated within a predictable $60-80 per barrel range for a while now, and BP, for me at least, represents the corporate turnaround story of the past few years. By that argument, I consider it to be a long-term addition to any investment portfolio. Disclaimer: The above commentary is meant to stimulate discussion based on the author's opinion and analysis. It is not solicitation, recommendation or investment advice to trade the aforementioned company’s shares, and/or oil and gas futures, options or products. Oil and gas markets can be highly volatile and opinions in the sector may change instantaneously and without notice. 