Every two years the great and the good in the oil and gas industry congregate in the southern Norway town of Stavanger for the ONS exhibition. This year’s event attracted 1,124 exhibitors from 37 countries visited by more than 65,000 people over the four days. Since the previous event in 2016 the doom and gloom that pervaded the industry has lifted, boosted by hard-earned efficiencies that have reduced the breakeven cost per barrel coupled with a strengthening oil price. However, although the portents appear good as an industry that is used to cyclical challenges nothing is being taken for granted. Opening thoughts The event was opened by His Royal Highness Crown Prince Haakon of Norway opened, followed by the first of many high-level discussions. This opening session featured prominent speakers such as Patrick Pouyanné, Chairman, and CEO of Total, Eldar Sætre, President, and CEO of Equinor and Lise Kingo, CEO and Executive Director of UN Global Compact. The changing energy landscape and the need to innovate were top of the agenda. The Crown Prince summed up the mood perfectly with his opening remarks. “To enjoy the future, to create new golden moments we need to reinvent ourselves, no one knows that better than you. What you in this sector can achieve has a huge impact on nations and individuals. You can really make a difference because you are key figures for a better, sustainable tomorrow.” Energy transition With the sector eyeing the energy transition there was much talk of diversification and sustainability. Equinor, in particular, was talking at length through various speakers and press conferences about their attempts to both lessen their carbon footprint, by reducing the carbon cost for each barrel produced from $17 down to $3 for new projects and investing in renewable energy. One of the standout messages came in a press conference when announced that it had decided to explore the possibilities of supplying the Gullfaks and Snorre fields with power from floating offshore wind. This could be the first time an offshore wind farm is directly connected to oil and gas platforms. “Reducing the use of gas turbines by supplying platforms with power from floating offshore wind is a challenging and innovative project,” Pål Eitrheim, Equinor’s executive vice president for new energy solutions, said. “It may also facilitate new industrial opportunities for Norway, Equinor and Norwegian supply industry within profitable renewable energy while enabling oil and gas production with low CO2 emissions. The Hywind Tampen project is contributing to further developing floating offshore wind technology, reducing costs and making the solutions more competitive.” Uncertain peak demand However, despite the drive for greater energy diversification, the underlying message is that we have not yet reached peak oil demand and that further investment in new hydrocarbon projects is needed if the growing demand is to be met. Ramez Naam was on hand to caution the industry with tales of companies such as Kodak who rather than grab the gauntlet of change when threatened by the nascent digital sector had attempted to put its faith in its market-leading photographic film business and failed. “Look out for rapid shifts, invest in the future, experiment and do not wait to be disrupted, disrupt yourself before it is too late.” A pragmatic approach However, while recognizing the need to invest in renewable energy for a transition to a reduced carbon future Patrick Pouyanne, chief executive Total was particularly forthright in his view that it was the industry’s role to ensure that they get the balance right. “The world needs energy and more energy,” he said. “The world needs access to reliable, affordable and clean energy and the three words are equally as important because you have 1.5 billion people in the world today that have no access to energy. Clean energy is important, but we should not forget the first two points, it is a combination of ambition and pragmatism. “What we don’t want is to have no fuel in 15 or 20 years because we have not done our job in developing new oil and gas resources, that is a real danger, so we have to be pragmatic.” He confirmed that even though Total’s stated aim is that 20%of its business will be from renewable energy by 2035, it will continue to invest in low-cost oil production. “We must focus on low-cost, low breakeven oil to be profitable in 20 years.”