Forbes Russia recently produced their list of the most powerful Russians, and it all looks a bit pre-1991. We all know who is number one. It’s Vladimir Putin. But the top 10 on the list are revealing. It's only been 26 years since the fall of the Soviet Union—barely a generation, but the idea of free enterprise and a private sector driving the economy is still lost on the Russians. Of the 10 most influential, only one is from the private sector. Even the one woman on the list, Elvira Nabiullina, is a government employee. The fall of the Soviet Union in 1991 has yet to usher in a healthy and thriving private sector. The cream of Russia's crop is funded by the taxpayer. If you want to get rich in Russia, work for a state-owned bank or a state-owned energy firm. Or for the Kremlin in Moscow. Vagit Alekperov, the president of Lukoil, is the only private sector executive on the list. Lukoil is the second-largest oil and gas company in Russia and the largest nonstate entity. Forbes lists Alekperov as the 78th-richest man in the world, with a net worth of around $18.1 billion. He is the most powerful private sector CEO in the country. Lukoil was sanctioned in 2014 by the U.S. and remains so to this day. Washington has sought to punish Russia’s biggest companies for their government 0146s role in the civil unrest taking place in east Ukraine. There are other executives on the list who manage publicly traded companies like Lukoil, but the companies that grace the top 10 all count the Russian government as their controlling shareholder. Russian Railways executive Oleg Belozerov was ranked behind Alekperov at No. 9, followed by No. 6 ranked Vladimir Bogdanov, whose work at the Siberian, state-controlled Surgutneftegas has put him on the Forbes billionaire list. Russia’s two most famous energy tycoons, or infamous, depending on who you ask, are both in the top 10. Alexei Miller, CEO of Gazprom is No. 3, making him the most influential oil and gas man in the country. He beats out Igor Sechin, Rosneft's CEO, who comes in at No. 4. Sechin is so feared in Russia that he is nicknamed Darth Vader. Miller is a bit more powerful, owning to the importance of Gazprom throughout Europe. The most powerful executive in Russia, after Putin himself, is not an oil man. It’s Sberbank CEO Herman Gref. For years, many foreign investors wished for a Gref presidency some day or at least a Gref finance ministry. So far, Putin seems happy with him heading the country’s leading financial institution. Sberbank is also sanctioned. Lastly, within the top 10 most influential after Putin, the remaining are either policymakers or heads of bureaucracies. Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev is No. 5, trailing Gref, Miller, and Vader. Nabiullina is the most powerful woman in Russia and No. 7 on the list. Russia's central banker has received accolades from her peers and from finance reporters and editors around the world during much of her tenure at the bank. She continues to be one of the most respected central bankers in the world. Lastly, what would a Russia’s Most Powerful list look like without the country’s top spymaster? Alexander Bortnikov is No. 8 after Nabiullina and is the head of the FSB, the Russian spy service that Washington likes to blame for reading Hillary Clinton’s emails about tripping up Bernie Sanders. Bortnikov has been in charge of the Russian version of the CIA since 2008. He has been an officer of the old Soviet spy agency when it was called the KGB as far back as 1974.