Hundreds of underground seismic motion detect early warnings signs of earthquakes. Economists have their own recession early warning detectors and some are going off. Early warnings for recession include: And other traditional pre-recession early warning systems are flashing orange to red. The National Bureau for Economic Research (NBER) – a nonprofit organization founded in the 1920s by economists and universities to help a modern US government maintain economic order and full employment – tracks the chronology of the U.S. business cycle. Its Business Cycle Dating Committee looks at real GDP, economy-wide employment, and real income as indicators for economic health. And when the recession happens, we want to know how deep it will be. Economic inequality can make recessions deeper and more prolonged. For instance, right before the great recession (2006-2007), the nation’s bottom 40 percent of households held no net worth and consumed almost 25 percent of the nation’s goods and services. Moving up to the middle class, households in the bottom 60 percent of the income distribution accounted for 40 percent of the nation’s consumption. But when unemployment rose to over 10 percent, households in 2008 drastically cut consumption. In an unequal economy when many households have no wealth and can’t self-insure against a downturn, cuts in personal consumption are particularly drastic and the recession grows deeper. Lastly, some economic measurements that we think of as good indicators are not always helpful. The unemployment rate is low but it may truly indicate an overheated economy with no more capacity to grow. The official unemployment rate does not include workers who are discouraged or marginally attached to the labor market. The non-inclusive definition of the unemployment rate combined with the fact that wages have been stagnant for decades indicates that the labor market is actually not robust. One of the best indicators of a coming recession is time, and it is about time for a recession. This expansion, which started in June 2009, is the second longest ever recorded in August 2018 – 9 years and two months old. The longest was exactly ten years in the 1990s. The average length of an expansion is 4 years and 9 months. Though business economists surveyed are optimistic – most of them think the economy will go into recession by 2020 -– we know the tax cuts have not produced economic investment. Most academic and government economists know that models, including surveys of hunches, are inaccurate. Even the IMF agrees predicting is inaccurate. The best we can do is watch the correlates to previous recessions, which right now paint an ominous picture.