The last place most investors would look for a promising investment in Alaskan oil is a company based in the tropical island country of Papua New Guinea. Oil Search, a name which says everything you need to know about what it does, has both surprisingly deep roots in PNG and an equally surprising exposure to an exploration play in Alaska which could contain as much as one billion barrels. The plum PNG asset is a 29% stake in a liquefied natural gas project operated by the U.S. oil giant ExxonMobil. One of the lowest cost LNG projects in the Asia Pacific region PNG LNG is moving towards an expansion decision that could see output more than doubled. Beating LNG Design Output In theory, that means annual production should rise from nameplate capacity of 6.9 million ton of LNG a year to around 15 million tons but given that the slickly-run plant last year produced 8.3 million tons, well above nameplate, the new target could be a lot more . Important steps in the expansion of PNG LNG, which will also involve a second business unit led by the big French oil producer, Total, are expected in the next few weeks, starting with the signing of a formal gas agreement with the government of PNG, followed by front-end engineering and design (FEED). Getting the design of a gas processing plant in an earthquake prone region such PNG is vital to both success and survival as was demonstrated when a magnitude 7.5 quake shook the PNG highlands in late February, knocking the LNG project off line until it returned to production in mid-April, downtime which ate into the half-year profit of Oil Search. However, even as Oil Search was reporting a 39% fall in net profit to $79 million for the six months to June 30 investment banks were looking at the next stages in the evolution of the company which has been active in PNG since 1929, making it one of the world's oldest surviving oil companies, while also being one that is appearing on prospective takeover lists as the oil price ratchets higher. More LNG is welcome and forms the backbone of the company's cash flow but the Oil Search project starting to attract most interest is 6,600 miles to the north where earlier this year it splashed out $400 million to buy a 25.5% stake in the Pikka Unit and adjacent exploration acreage on Alaska's North Slope, along with a 37.5% stake in the Horseshoe exploration block. At the time of the deal, which was finalized in February the resource estimate in the blocks acquired, which are about 50 miles west of the giant Prudhoe Bay oilfields, was put at 500 million barrels. The latest estimate from investment banks is that there could be a billion barrels of oil in the tenements in which Oil Search has an interest. Macquarie Bank, in a research note published late last month, said a key to the increase in reserves was a forthcoming winter appraisal drilling program while also tantalizing investors by suggesting in a headline that the Alaskan project could hold "a billion or more" barrels. Government Deal Key To Expansion Morgan Stanley reckons the most important catalyst for Oil Search is the signing of a gas agreement with the PNG Government which will clear the way for expanded LNG production, but the bank also likes the look of the Alaskan project, noting that the PNG-based company holds an option to double its stake if it pays another $450 million by next June. The key to Oil Search is its LNG production and strong gas marketing connections in Asia, but the two wildcards arethe icy north of Alaska, a region which could not be more foreign to a company with a tropical base, and the lack of a dominant shareholder after the sell down last year by the PNG Government which had long treated Oil Search as a national business champion Listed on the Australia and PNG stock markets Oil Search shares have risen by 35% over the past 12 months, despite the earthquake setback earlier this year, to last trade at $A8.96 ($6.45) valuing the company at $A13.65 billion ($9.8 billion).