David Stendahl runs Signal Trading Group in Cincinnati and I've been following his work on Twitter for at least the last 7 or 8 years. He's a technical analyst -- studies price data -- who trades many different markets depending on what his systems favor, long or short. I asked him if he'd answer a few questions about his work and he agreed to talk about how he's doing it. Here's the result: John Navin: How did you get started in trading? When did you realize that this is what you wanted to do? David Stendahl: I’ve always had an interest in trading and technical analysis, which began with my father helping me to invest in a few stocks while in High School. My focus went to the next level when I purchased Compu Trac back in 1990. That program allowed me to code and test my ideas in a way that could not be done by other programs at that time. Once I was able to take my trading idea from concept to fully developed and thoroughly vetted system, I was hooked on trading and have never looked back. My career in trading has allowed me to be a portfolio manager, design software, write a few books and travel the world presenting my philosophy on systematic trading. Navin: You trade systematically — that is, I believe, non-discretionary. Without giving up trade secrets, could you describe what type of price action triggers your system? Stendahl: My firm, Signal Trading Group, has systems that fall into three main categories: Trend, Momentum and Patterns-based, each of which looks exclusively at price data. I don’t look at any fundamental data, I only center on price data. Each system has its own unique way of looking at the market: some look for a price surge to jump on fast-moving markets, while others focus on periods of price exhaustion to exploit reversals, and others identify specific pattern setups that anticipate reversals or continuations. The common thread in each system is their ability to dynamically adjust to changing trading environments. As the markets slowly transition from a bull to bear phase and back again, systems will need adapt and adjust to the environment. Most importantly, these adjustments must be done automatically. Navin: You trade many different markets but which ones have been the most profitable for you? And what are the reasons? What's the best single trade you've made? Stendahl: As a system trader, I spend a great deal of time evaluating and monitoring my systems. It’s a constant process that has our computers running 24/7. A by-product of all this testing has been the accumulation of a huge database of trading results for our markets. Each market is graded based on its performance over various trading styles and time frames. Markets are judged on profitability, performance consistency and various risk metrics, resulting in a trading grade of A through F. The markets I’ve had the best luck with are Japanese Yen, Crude Oil, S&P 500, Wheat, Lean Hogs, Gold and Coffee. The reason these markets have the best letter grade is simple, their trading characteristics don’t vary as much as other markets. In other words, their price action is more receptive to a systematic trading style. The best trade I’ve been associated with was in Coffee. Coffee is prone to violent price moves that can be highly profitable, and it is by far my favorite market. It can’t handle large order size but it’s still my favorite market to trade. It gets a solid “A” grade. Navin: Have you ever been surprised by trades suggested by the system? If so, can you describe one such trade? Stendahl: I’m continually surprised, in a good way, by the systems I have designed. Like anyone, I’m flawed because my mood can influence my perspective on the market. Systems enable you to overcome this and since they remain focused and trade without EGO, meaning no Emotion, no Greed and no Opinion. They simple do their job. Every time our systems go counter to the established trend, I mentally question the trades. Recently, the systems went long Sugar, which has been in a bear trend since 2016, and once again I was surprised. I’m thinking that this is crazy, there is no support to this market it must continue to fall. Yet the systems quickly transition from short to long raking up some nice profits. So, do I get surprised by my systems? The answer is undoubtedly—yes. The fact is that the more surprised I am, then typically the better the outcome. If I can get fooled by a market reversal, so will others. And, when the reversal is recognized by others, that’s when the markets can make some big moves very quickly. Navin: What markets are you long right now and why? And what markets are you trading from the short side and what are the reasons? I'm not looking for everything you're doing — but if you can reveal one or 2 of each, that would be great. Stendahl: I’m a numbers guy so I’ll break it down for you. We track more than 300 systems trading 23 markets. Right now, 26 of those systems are long and 17 are short. Plus, 47% of the markets have some degree of hedge. We are fully leveraged long in the Dow, Natural Gas, Gold, 10-Year Notes and Sugar, and we’re fully leveraged short in the Australian Dollar, Soybeans and Lean Hogs. Our best open positions are in Australian Dollar, which is in an extended trend, and Sugar, which recently had a perfect price divergent market surge. The systems are constantly changing, so I’m always posting a lot of signal updates on Twitter to keep my followers informed. Navin: Have you been tracking the cryptocurrency markets such as bitcoin? If not, why not? And if so, what your thoughts about it? Stendahl: I have been tracking cryptocurrencies, but I have not traded them mainly because I’m a stickler for clean data with an extensive history. Cryptocurrencies simply have not been around long enough for me to properly test my systems. In my heart, I know the systems will be able to trade them, but I learned over the years that I need to follow my set testing procedure to ensure that I have confidence in the systems. My confidence comes from my extensive testing of my systems with a long history of data. Without that, I can’t do my job properly. I’ll wait for cryptocurrencies to mature a little more before jumping in, besides there are plenty of markets to trade. I’m in no rush. Navin:: What are you doing in Cincinnati, Ohio instead of New York or Chicago or London? Stendahl: I moved to Cincinnati with my wife, after having grown up in New Jersey and Connecticut. I made the move 28 years ago, so that I could afford to pursue my trading career, start a family and live a comfortable lifestyle. The move allowed me to really focus on trading, and the fact is that it forced me to build my own trading plan, as I had no mentor. I also had to develop trading software that allowed me to fully develop my systems. I honestly don’t think I could have done that if I had remained on the East Coast. Cincinnati gave us a great quality of life, and it gave me the time necessary to build my business. So, as time progressed and our daughter grew up, we just stayed. We will see what the next chapter holds, because now I can work anywhere, all I need is strong and secure WiFi. Navin: What's the best single bit of advice you'd have for someone beginning to trade? Stendahl: Have a plan, a real trading plan, preferable one that is systematized so that you test its performance historically before you invest money. It will take time to program your ideas, and it will take even more time to properly test your ideas, but if go through that process, you will gain the confidence necessary to stick with the systems rather than continually starting over. That’s why I started Signal Trading Group and our systems guide people in doing just that. ### I do not hold positions in these investments. No recommendations are made one way or the other. If you're an investor, you'd want to look much deeper into each of these situations. You can lose money trading or investing in stocks and other instruments. Always do your own independent research, due diligence and seek professional advice from a licensed investment advisor