In a market that's hitting new highs, I seek out stocks that still look cheap and pay you well to wait until they get expensive. Every Friday evening in Forbes Dividend Investor, I publish a Top 25 model portfolio in which I present stocks that are standouts for value and dividend stability. Criteria include discounts to five-year average multiples of price to sales, book value, earnings, free cash flow and enterprise value/EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization). Stocks are rewarded for superior rates of dividend growth and revenue growth, as well as for high yields and low payout ratios. I also require operating cash flow over the past 12 months to be positive, and to be sufficient to cover the dividend. Stocks meeting these criteria have done well this year, especially after the selloff in REITs and retailers earlier this year. Portfolio constituent and shoe retailer DSW is up 68% since February 2, while mall jewelry store operator Signet Jewelers is up 69% since April 27. Among the rebounding REITS, Omega Healthcare Investors (OHI), Hersha Hospitality Trust (HT) and Education Realty Trust (EDR) are all up more than 32% since their addition to the portfolio in the past several months. Here are three stocks from three different industries that currently rank among the Top 25. Parsippany, N.J.-based B&G Foods (BGS) makes, sells and distributes shelf-stable and frozen foods in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, taking its moniker from Joseph Bloch and Julius Guggenheimer, two pickle merchants in New York City from the early twentieth century. B&G’s modern incarnation as a food conglomerate dates back to 1996. It owns more than 50 brands, including Cream of Wheat, Green Giant, Le Sueur, Ortega and SnackWell’s. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization has been on the rise for the past three quarters, and the company generated EBITDA of $3.91 per share over the past year to support the $1.90 in annual dividends, good for a yield of 6.1% at current prices. Meanwhile, shares of BGS continue to trade at substantially lower valuations relative to the past five years. The ex-dividend date for the next $0.475 per share quarterly payout is September 27, and the next earnings report comes out October 31. B&G Foods boasts a 6% dividend yield.    Houston, Tex.-based Phillips 66 Partners, L.P. (PSXP) is a master limited partnership engaged in the ownership, operation, development and acquisition of fee-based crude oil, refined petroleum product and natural gas liquids pipelines and terminals, and other transportation and storage midstream assets. Revenue this year is expected to grow 46% to $1.367 billion, with earnings up 37% to $3.53 per unit. Based on the last distribution of $0.714 per unit, PSXP yields 5.8%. Distributable cash flow to limited partners this year is expected to grow 19%, and the quarterly payout has grown 35.7% per year since the first distribution paid five years ago. Valuations are significantly below five-year averages, suggesting higher prices ahead for PSXP, which currently yields 5.8%. Winona, Minn.-based Fastenal (FAST) is one of the largest wholesale distributors of construction materials and supplies in the U.S., specializing in screws, bolts, nuts and other fasteners. Sales this year are expected to grow 11% to $4.87 billion, with earnings up 31% to $2.49 per share. Based on average valuations over the past five years, Fastenal is significantly undervalued on every metric I consider when assessing value, including price to earnings, price to sales, price to book value, enterprise value/EBITDA and price to cash flow. It also pays out $1.60 per share in dividends, good for a yield of 2.5% at current prices. The dividend is 25% higher than it was last year, and the next $0.40 payout is coming up at the end of October. Except for one vice president, insiders have been buyers of the stock in recent months. John Dobosz is editor of Forbes Dividend Investor and Forbes Premium Income Report newsletter advisory services.  Click here for a special offer with a money-back guarantee to subscribe to Forbes Dividend Investor and Forbes Premium Income Report. 