Brand loyalty has been decreasing over the years. Yet, some companies manage to create intense brand loyalty even during recessions. One example of this is Apple, which constantly broke sales records during the worst quarters of the recent recession.  How did it do this? Why do some companies prosper despite difficult economic times and others struggle through prosperous times?  The answer is simple and complex: trust. It is more than simply believing what a company says. Trust is at the heart of consumer loyalty. It is the confidence that consumers have in a brand’s products. It is the assurance that customers will be treated right. It keeps customers returning to pay higher prices for a brand they value. At the onset, building trust may seem as simple as using social proof and good marketing. But social proof is only a reflection of brand loyalty. Building trust encompasses much more.  The following are four ways that companies build or erode trust.  Core principles must be based on honesty, trust and forthrightness.     Although many companies name integrity as a core or guiding principle, examples of dishonesty abound. One reason for this might be that people define integrity differently. While one person may consider an omission of a disclosure to be dishonest, another may not consider that dishonest.  Thus, it is vital to define integrity and to incorporate it as a core value. Companies cannot simply state that integrity is important. They must abide by it. Incentive plans can’t encourage dishonesty.  Take, for example, Wells Fargo. Years before it hit the news for pushy sales practices, I worked for the company. Quarterly, employees had to take ethics training. That was a step in the right direction. The training clearly stated what was and wasn’t acceptable in sales standards. But, at the same time, some managers routinely demanded sales at any cost. The corporate culture created so much pressure that some employees compromised their own ethics under the pressure to sell. That’s not a position from which to build trust with consumers.  Remember, one dishonest act can poison a hundred honest acts. Public trust in Wells Fargo plummeted to 40% in the Temkin Trust Ratings. That’s more than 15% below the industry average. The company had to revamp the entire sales culture and still has not gained back the public’s trust.  Authenticity touches consumers in a way fluff doesn’t. Perhaps, while driving, you have seen signs similar to this message: “Local real estate investor seeks apprentice. Make $5,000-$10,000 a month.” Have you called the number on the ad? Chances are, you have done exactly what I have done -- continued driving past without any thought, except possibly disgust, for the dishonest nature of the “ad.” Those ads typically seek investors, not job applicants, and are misleading.  Customers are bombarded with thousands of products each day. Today’s consumers are smarter than ever before. They don’t want a “spin” on a product. They want authenticity. In human relationships, authenticity is the key to connection. The same holds true with corporations. When companies are authentic, consumers can connect with them.  Honesty, transparency and accountability can build greater trust even after a mistake is made. Ideally, you can avoid making any major mistakes. But, it is nearly impossible to avoid any mistakes, ever. After a mistake, honesty and transparency go far to build trust. Then, take accountability.  Take, for example, BP. In 2010, the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill became one of the largest environmental crises in recent history. The company failed to be transparent. It initially reported an oil leak of 1,000 barrels a day. The true number ended up being roughly 5,000 barrels a day. Even then, a BP spokesperson downplayed it. This hurt trust immensely. The company was seen as a participant in a cover-up of a major disaster and apathetic to the problems it caused.  But the company handled an earlier spill so incredibly that its response was considered the “gold standard” in the industry. In 1990, a BP-chartered tanker spilled 400,000 gallons of crude oil. BP’s response was swift and clear. Chairman James Ross told reporters “Our lawyers tell us it’s not our fault. But we feel like it’s our fault and we are going to act like it’s our own fault.” After the 1990 spill, the Los Angeles Times ran a story titled “After spill, BP soaks up oil and good press.” Conversely, after the 2010 spill, the New York Daily News ran a piece titled “B.P’s CEO Tony Hayward: the most hated -- and most clueless -- man in America.” Two stories, one company, and a good and bad example of building trust.  Don’t ignore customer service!  Customer service is possibly the core of brand trust. It incorporates everything from the quality and effectiveness of the product to the way customers are treated when they interact with your company. Comcast garnered only 22% of customers’ trust in 2018. One of the biggest factors in Comcast’s trust issues is its poor customer service. Customers complain of having to repeatedly call in to make changes. They cite multiple transfers when they have an issue and being repeatedly asked for their information. All of this erodes confidence in the company.  Consumer trust is vital in an increasingly competitive landscape. If broken, it can be rebuilt. It often takes time. But, it must be a major part of the company’s core values and not simply something that sounded good on paper when the mission statement was written. It must be defined and abided by.  Only once a business is authentic, transparent and honest, will consumers show brand loyalty through the thousands of recommendations that are quietly given during office conversations and playdates at the park. The “social proof” that shows up online will be only a small percentage of the proof that occurs offline daily. 