In this article, I explain the ten Big Ideas in Economics from Tyler Cowen and Alex Tabarrok's textbook Modern Principles of Economics. You can find more of their economics educational material at MRUniversity.com (disclosure: I have done contract work for the Mercatus Center and specifically in connection with Marginal Revolution University). I thank them for gracious permission to use their list. Why are you reading this instead of doing something else? You’re reading this in response to an incentive, which is a reward or punishment that motivates your behavior. An incentive encourages you to do one thing and not another, and when the incentives change, people’s actions change. Economics has a lot of big ideas, but “incentives matter” is the biggest. Think for a minute about the incentives motivating you to read this. You might think “I’m not being paid to read it. So much for ‘incentives matter.’” But hold on a minute: incentives don’t have to be immediate. The reward for doing the reading is that you will, I hope, understand economics a bit better. Eventually, this improved understanding will lead to a better grade. Your better grade means you will have a higher GPA and eventually a better, higher-earning job. “That might be true of the people on either side of me,” you might say, “but it isn’t true of me. I’m not studying economics for its purely instrumental value as a means to the end of high earnings. I’m studying economics because it is essential to a well-rounded liberal education. I value it for its own sake.” Then I applaud you—and that’s an incentive. Even if you don’t seek the applause of your family, friends, classmates, and professors but simply wish to understand economics because virtue demands it, you’re still responding to the reward that is your own self-approval. What do you suppose would happen if we changed the incentives somehow? Would you read more carefully if you knew there would be an exam covering this reading on the second day of class? Would you read more carefully if you knew that exam would count for five percent of your final grade? Would you read more carefully if you knew that exam would go into the “homework and participation” part of your grade and, therefore, be so insignificant as to basically not matter at all when your grade is determined? Would you think twice about doing the reading if it were in Klingon, the fictional language from Star Trek, rather than English? If any of these changes would have changed your behavior, then congratulations: you respond to incentives. Incentives influence people’s behavior, and as you no doubt know their behavior can be productive and peaceful or destructive and violent. A society’s institutions determine that society’s incentives. Institutions are rules, and they can be written (like the Ten Commandments or the Code of Federal Regulations) or unwritten (like the “rule” that the guy pays when he takes a girl out on a date). We sometimes call written rules formal rules, or laws, and unwritten rules informal rules, or norms. Institutions also have to be enforced, and their enforcement characteristics are also very important. The books of Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy recount the ways in which the Ten Commandments and other written rules for the nation of Israel were to be enforced. Some of these are rules are no longer formally enforced by governments, priests, or other authorities. Furthermore, people break all sorts of written rules and laws all the time, like laws against texting and driving or jaywalking. Enforcement also matters for unwritten rules. A young man who takes a girl on a date and does not pay might be considered boorish, unrefined, and selfish by his friends and hers for failing to do what is expected of him. Enforcement here could be pretty direct and immediate (there may not be a second date) and/or indirect and long-lasting (he may have trouble getting future dates and his relationships with his friends might weaken due to his impropriety). Written rules (and their enforcement) change over time. There are a lot of things that used to be legal that aren’t (like driving without a seatbelt) and a lot of other things that used to be illegal that aren’t (like recreational marijuana use in some states). These changes to the written rules change people’s incentives—and sometimes, they change people’s incentives in very surprising ways that we will see over the course of the semester. Unwritten rules (and their enforcement) change over time, as well. Think about dates and people’s expectations about relationships, for example: the norms that governed dating and relationships in 2018 are not the same as the norms that governed dating in 1998 or 1958. What would have been the height of impropriety in 1958 might not be a big deal in 2018, and what we think outrageous in 2018 might not have been a big deal in 1958. We’re interested in institutions and their enforcement because they determine people’s incentives. If a rule isn’t enforced, it isn’t really a constraint—and therefore, it doesn’t provide a very strong incentive. As we will see, institutions and the incentives they create help explain a great deal of the differences in living standards between countries and across time. Here’s another way to put this: every action has a cost. That cost is the next best thing you could be doing. Think about anything else you could be doing. You could be sleeping. You could be checking your email or text messages (neither will be tolerated in class, by the way). You could be eating. We call that next-best thing your opportunity cost. When you choose to do one thing, you are implicitly (and necessarily!) choosing not to do another. What does it cost you to be in class? You might start by taking what you’re paying in tuition and then dividing by the number of hours you’re expected to be in the classroom each year, but you should stop right there. You don’t get a refund for classes you skip, so the average tuition per classroom hour is, at this point, irrelevant (we call this a sunk cost). Suppose that instead of coming to class you could instead work for two hours at $10 per hour. Hence, coming to class costs you $20 in earnings you trade off in order to get the benefits that come with being in class. Think back to Big Idea #1, “Incentives Matter,” to get an idea of what those benefits are. First, there’s the benefit that simply comes with knowing more about economics. Maybe you value this understanding for its own sake. There are more material benefits that come with knowing more about economics, as well. First, it can help you make better choices in work and life. By the end of the term, you will have developed a personal investment strategy that will make you a multimillionaire upon retirement. Second, you will obtain the skills and signals you need to earn more later. Just like putting $20 in the bank instead of spending it on doughnuts means you can withdraw $20 plus interest later, spending $20 worth of time paying close and careful attention in class means you will be able to earn more than $20 for two hours of your time later. Not everyone responds to the same incentives the same way. You and I might not choose to drive a lot less if the price of gas were to go up by a penny a gallon, but some people would. Those some people illustrate the importance of thinking at the margin: not everyone drives less in response to a tiny increase in the price of gas, but someone will. People will generally do everything for which the marginal benefit (or marginal value) is greater than the marginal cost. Imagine you are at Starbucks or McDonald’s or the cafeteria and you have a drink. How many refills do you get? At some point—and this need not be the same point for everyone—the marginal benefit of another refill will fail to cover its marginal cost. At Starbucks, refills are fifty cents plus tax. At some point, another 24 fluid ounces of dark roast coffee will not be worth another fifty cents. If you’re a member of Starbucks’ rewards program, refills don’t cost extra. At some point, however, another 24 fluid ounces of dark roast coffee will not be worth it even if you don’t have to fork over any money. When you’re comparing the additional benefits of one more cup of coffee to the additional cost, you are thinking at the margin. If you were to go back in time five hundred years you’d find that virtually everyone you encountered was desperately poor by modern standards. Yes, Henry VIII sat on the throne of England, and as he and his courtiers were eating some five thousand calories per day he grew so fat that he could not move without assistance, but even he didn’t have an iPhone or a flush toilet, and truth be told those 5,000 calories a day probably weren’t as tasty as what you can get at the Caf. Today, virtually everyone in a country like the United States is rich by historical standards. One of the reasons this happened is that we unleashed the power of trade. The power of trade has a few elements. First, when we trade we are able to give up things we don’t want and get things we do want. Through trade, we can move resources from where they have lower to where they have higher values. Imagine someone gave Nick the Auburn-hating Alabama lover a ticket to the Auburn-Washington game and Gus the Alabama-hating Auburn lover a ticket to the Alabama-Louisville game. They may disagree fundamentally on which team is best, but they can make one another better off by swapping tickets. Second, when we trade we are able to divide labor and thereby become more efficient. This means we can make more with less. When people divide labor and trade, buyers reduce their costs but sellers increase their revenue. Both are better off as a result. Third, when we trade we are able to divide knowledge. Think about all the things you use every day, like your toothbrush, your phone, and the pen or pencil with which you’re writing. Do you understand exactly how they work and how to make them? Don’t feel bad: no one does. But that’s why trade is powerful. When we can trade, we can harness knowledge we don’t have, like (say) the engineer’s understanding of the chemical properties of the particular plastic that went into your toothbrush. Obviously (I hope), you agree that there is a lot more to life than wealth and economic growth. They may not be transcendently important as ends unto themselves—an obsession with wealth makes one susceptible to the sins of greed and avarice—but they are very important as means to our highest and worthiest goals. Wealth tends to lead to (among many other things) higher literacy rates, better health, and longer lives. More wealth gives us the resources we need to do something about the problems we face, like hunger and sickness, and the richer a society is the more it will be able to address these serious and sometimes seemingly-intractable problems. Economic growth happens when a society produces more output in one year than it did in the last, and economic growth is a subtly and deceptively powerful phenomenon because small changes in growth rates can have large compound effects over long periods. For example, suppose Narnia and Archenland each have a per-capita income of $10,000. The growth rate in Narnia is 2% per year and the growth rate in Archenland is 1% per year. Next year, per-capita income in Narnia is $10,020 and per-capita income in Archenland is $10,010. That’s not a big difference. But if you go out seventy years, per-capita income in Narnia will be $40,000 while per-capita income in Archenland will be $20,000. Go out another 70 years and per-capita income in Narnia will be $160,000 while per-capita income in Archenland will be $40,000. And 70 years beyond that, per-capita income in Narnia will be $640,000 while per-capita income in Archenland will be $80,000. After 210 years, the average Narnian has about eight times as many goods and services every year as the average Archenlander. The difference between Narnia and Archenland in the example you just saw is likely driven by differences in their institutions. As you saw above, institutions matter because they determine people’s incentives, and the institutions that promote economic growth are those that reward people for producing and trading rather than destroying and stealing. Broadly, there are five institutional foundations of long-run economic growth, none of which are wholly present or wholly absent in any society but all of which matter: secure property rights, an honest government, political stability, a dependable legal system, and open and competitive markets. The better these are in a society, the faster that society will grow and the richer its citizens will be. Property rights define the circumstances of ownership, and ownership has three aspects. When you own something, you have the right to exclude others from using it, you have the right to alienate it, and you have the right to the income it generates. If you own a piece of land, for example, you have the right to build a fence to keep other people off of it, you can sell it or give it away, and you have the right to whatever grows on it. An honest government is free from corruption, which can be like a tax on production. Suppose you want to build something on land that you own, but you first have to get approval from the city building inspector—and the building inspector has the power to decide whether your project goes forward or not. Now think about what this kind of power might mean to the dishonest and the unscrupulous. A building inspector who demands a bribe can stop your project in its tracks. Dishonest officials who demand bribes before issuing permits and things like that can stop economic growth in its tracks. Political stability matters because people looking to make long-term investments in things like houses or businesses are going to want to know what rules to expect. If the rules can change suddenly or erratically, it adds an element of risk to people’s investment decisions. Do you think it is safe or risky to invest in a country where you can expect the government to be violently overthrown every few years? Places with lots of political instability are not likely to be safe places to invest. A dependable legal system is kind of like political stability in that it influences people’s investment decisions. John Adams, who would go on to be the second President of the United States, wrote that we have “a government of laws and not of men.” If you sign a contract to have your house painted, it is good to know that if the painter does not do the work you can take her to court and expect the case to be decided on the basis of what the law says and not on the basis of whether the painter is friends with the judge or whether you are rich or poor. We sometimes use the phrase rule of law to describe the importance of a dependable legal system. Finally, open and competitive markets are markets in which anyone with an idea can bring a product to market. Open and competitive markets do two important things. First, they push resources toward where they produce the most value. If someone thinks a gas station would be a better use of your land than the apartment complex you own and manage, they can make you an offer. Second, open and competitive markets encourage creative destruction, to use a term popularized by the mid-twentieth century economist Joseph Schumpeter. Creative destruction happens because of innovation. It is creative in that it introduces something newer and better. It is destruction in that it upsets old ways of doing things. Cars are a classic example: when was the last time you saw someone driving to school, work, or church in a horse-drawn carriage? Economic growth is not a smooth, even process. Societies occasionally have big slumps in economic activity. Persistent, widespread reductions in employment and output are called recessions, and they happen for a lot of reasons. Perhaps there is a slump in “aggregate demand” and prices are very slow to adjust to the new underlying economic reality. Maybe the economy’s productive potential has changed due to weather (like the Dust Bowl of the 1930s) or a sudden change in oil prices (like the oil shocks of the 1970s) or a large-scale change in a society’s institutions. There is a lot of debate about the degree to which these slumps can be avoided and even more debate over the best ways to moderate them. Some scholars think periodic crises are an inescapable fact of a market economy while others think crises are induced by unwise public policy. In principle, at least, a government can address a business cycle with effective tax and spending policy (called fiscal policy) or by managing the supply of money effectively (called monetary policy)—and even then, a lot of scholars caution that when we aren’t very, very careful about how we make policy, we run the risk of making things worse. The economist Milton Friedman said two important things about inflation. First, “inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon.” Second, inflation happens when there is “too much money chasing too few goods.” Governments that print too much money, as Robert Mugabe’s government did in Zimbabwe and as Nicolas Maduro’s government has been doing in Venezuela, drive prices higher. Importantly, when a government prints money it does not produce any new goods and services. It only adds to the pile of claims on those goods and services. With more money and no new goods and services, prices have nowhere to go but up. Central banking seems like it should be easy: simply target the right interest rates, direct people to buy and sell US treasury securities accordingly, and watch the economy adjust appropriately. It’s a lot harder than that, though, as you should be able to infer from “Business Cycles Cannot Be Avoided, But They Can Be Moderated” and “Prices Rise When the Government Prints Too Much Money.” There is disagreement. There is the risk of exacerbating inflation. There is also the simple fact that central bankers are working with data that might be several months behind the actual, on-the-ground economic reality and making policies that could take a long time to work their way through the economy. Even beyond this, financial markets are extremely efficient, and if everyone knows what the central bank is going to do then the prices of all assets will adjust and the central bank’s policies likely won’t have the desired effect. Even though Central Banking is Hard and Prices Rise When the Government Prints Too Much Money and a society can throttle economic growth with bad institutions, economics is a lot of fun. First, it’s a way to really understand your world. When you study economics, you study a subject with a simple underlying logic with incredible explanatory power applying to every aspect of human (and in some cases, animal!) behavior. If you look at any social phenomenon, from the Crusades to the price of popcorn at the movies to why prisoners use cigarettes as money, you will be able to understand it better by applying the big ideas in economics. [1] The specific institutional factors—property rights, etc.—are listed in Cowen & Tabarrok. 