Every August, much of the world goes on vacation and the press struggles to find newsworthy items, often publishing things that wouldn’t normally be considered worthy of ink (or electrons now). This led to the term “silly season” which originated in the 19th century. Aside from political news spewing from Washington (and the courts) and videos of wild animals being freed from unlikely places, Pundits predict imminent oil price spike due to political instability in Venezuela, U.S. sanctions against Iran, and the IMO 2020 emission requirements. Alaska budget includes tax breaks for oil producers to promote exploration and enhance revenues. Libyan Oil production drops as security personnel protest the replacement of curly fries with home fries.    Iran admits U.S. sanctions working, oil revenue down $8 billion dollars. Venezuelan President Maduro offers the country’s creditors ownership of PDVSA, if they assume its debt. No takers appear. President Trump announces tariffs on Chinese wooden clothespins. “They’ve wiped out our domestic industry. What will our brave soldiers do if they have to go into battle in damp undies?” China announces increased tariffs on LNG imports from the U.S. Stock prices for air purifier manufacturers soar. Facebook discovers that the U.S. railroad industry is funding sites that oppose new pipeline construction. Drop in soybean prices leads farmers to demand that ten percent of all hot dogs be tofu, and that biodiesel be subsidized by the Production Tax Credit. Pundits predict imminent oil price crash due to political instability in Venezuela, U.S. sanctions against Iran, and the IMO 2020 emission requirements. Venezuelan President Maduro decides to end use of bolivars and all printed currency in favor of Pokemon Go characters. Alaska budget to raise taxes on oil producers to enhance revenues and reduce budget deficit. Renewable energy advocates propose that giant heat transfer coils be built in the West near forest fires. Pundits predict imminent oil price stability due to political instability in Venezuela, U.S. sanctions against Iran, and the IMO 2020 emission requirements. Iranian customs authorities publish data showing pistachio exports to Asia up by $8 billion. New regulations require automakers to post the nation of origin for all parts in their vehicles. A new study reports that people living near fracking sites are more likely to wear ascots. Pundits admit they don’t know what will happen in Venezuela, how much oil supply will be lost from U.S. sanctions against Iran, or what the IMO 2020 emission requirements will mean for oil prices. 