The ancient Chinese general Sun Tzu stated, “All warfare is based on deception.” As we face the increasing risk of a trade war, one thing appears rather certain – “traders and investors do not think tariffs are a good idea nor believe they will happen,” per John Authers of the FT. Even CEOs are telling shareholders on earnings calls that tariffs pose little to no problem, despite economics and historical experience suggesting otherwise. Per Anatole Kaletsky of Gavekal, “U.S. assets now seem to carry almost no discount for the risks of a trade war, an oil price spike or a big swing to the left in November’s congressional elections.” There is no doubt that unilateral trade decisions will certainly have an impact. The US Chamber of Commerce recently released a report concluding that “tariffs that beget more tariffs only lead to a trade war that will cost American jobs and economic growth.” While the potential impact of a trade war is debated, we have clearly been in a war between populism and mainstream democracy, as well as protectionism vs globalism – all of which could lead to more market volatility ahead. There has even been a “war of words” with the Federal Reserve, where the rhetoric is eerily reminiscent of the late 1960s/early 1970s when Johnson and Nixon badgered the Fed to the point of capitulation. The result was a period of stagflation. As we know, these are not issues just in the United States. The landslide victor of the recent Mexican presidential election campaigned with a slogan of “the best foreign policy is domestic policy.” Alan Greenspan stated in September of 1998 (after the Russian default and the fall of Long-Term Capital Management) that “it is not credible that the United States can remain an oasis of prosperity unaffected by a world that is experiencing greatly increased stress,” which is still very relevant today.    While some of these risks may not be priced into the market yet, there are certainly some signals. Per Amrith Ramkumar of the WSJ, “The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index, a measure of whether economic reports are meeting projections, has fallen to its lowest level in nearly a year.” This now indicates that the broader economic data is coming in below expectations. While some point to GDP as the measure of economic health, just look at bond yields across the board. The yield curve has flattened significantly – a signal of a potential slowdown. Per Strategas, “an inverted yield curve is a great predictor of a recession because it means the Central Bank has so grossly distorted the market that the economic collateral damage is enough to bring the economy down.” Also, the term premium, which is a “market-implied measure of expected volatility; specifically, yield volatility directly linked to inflation volatility,” has been negative. It has remained negative not as a result of quantitative easing, but rather the many “semi-passive strategies that are willing to take this risk as long as inflation, and inflation volatility remain low.” Really, “this is a bold-faced dare to the Fed to create inflation.” Of course, this is all coming at a time with increased indexation of investment securities and increased algorithmic trading. As investor and author George Gilder recently quoted, “Machines can’t be minds.” How does a machine quantify unpriced risk such as protectionism, or the return of inflation after so many years? While advocates will suggest that the success of these quantitative models is born in proper backdating – this only shows a perceived effectiveness. However, when an unforeseen variable or event is added to the equation, the backdating (and hence the investment strategy) is reared useless. In short, that investment model is no longer back-dated, it is simply “dated.” Drawing perfect conclusions from historical data alone is impossible. It is also dangerous to draw conclusions about the U.S. economy based on the stock market, particularly when the market performance has been partially “goosed” by corporate stock repurchases. “Companies themselves have been the single biggest buyers of stocks since the financial crisis” to the tune of $5 trillion according to the FT. The recent tax cuts have perpetuated buybacks even more. As the market eventually “prices in” some of the aforementioned risks, I believe defensive positioning will bear good results for investors. Over the past three months, we have begun to see the classic defensive stocks (i.e. telecom, staples, utilities) perform significantly better. Even defensive currencies like the Swiss franc have done well. As Dave Rosenburg says, when the Swiss franc rallies 2.4% in a month against the dollar, “as it just did, it is the currency market’s way of warning everyone that not everything is going all that well.” As I have often stated, maintaining liquidity is essential to capture inevitable future opportunities, while continuing to own unloved, high quality, value-oriented dividend paying companies. 