The Fed will meet at the end of this month, and it's broadly expected that rates will rise again to exceed 2%. This view is based on both the futures market for interest rates, and the minutes of the past Fed meeting. So given that, we can be pretty confident on a rate hike happening at the meeting. Beyond that, what hints should we watch for when the rate decision is discussed? Inflationary Pressure Currently inflation (the rate of price increases) is close to the Fed's 2% target. However, the Fed has noted that tariffs raising the price of imported goods, a strong consumer, high oil prices as well as a potential lagged effect from sluggish price increases in recent years may all contribute to higher inflation. Since controlling inflation is one of only two primary mandates of the Federal Reserve, any signal that inflation is likely to rise over the 2% target could cause the Fed to rise rates more aggressively into 2019. Inflation gets more attention, because the Fed's second area of focus, unemployment is currently relatively low, and below what many consider its normal level. Often, high unemployment may prompt Fed decision-makers to be cautious in raising rates, or even to cut them, but currently there's little for the Fed to be worried about when it comes to unemployment right now. Hence, inflation takes more of a front seat. An Inverted Yield Curve Currently the U.S. yield curve is pretty flat. It's more typical for long-term interest rates to be above shorter term rates. When short-term rates exceed long-term rates, that's called an inverted yield curve. Some Fed decision-makers worry about that, because historically an inverted yield curve has predicted recessions within a year or two. However, the opposing view is that the Fed intervention in the bond markets and other unusual factors make the yield curve a less reliable indicator now than in the past. Also, it may be the case that yield curve just happens to invert before recessions due to chance, and doesn't actually cause a recession to occur. Nonetheless, an inverted yield curve gets a lot of attention and so the Fed will be keeping a close eye on it. Risks The Fed continually keep an eye on risks to the outlook. Regardless, of the state of the economy, there is never a shortage of things to worry about, even when things appear to be going pretty well. Currently domestically, U.S. agriculture has been soft due to price declines linked to export disruption from tariffs, and construction has also also been slightly weak though that may prove temporary. Plus the financial system is always closely monitored for signs of stress given its economic significance. Nonetheless, there are more concerns oversees as Turkey, South Africa, Brazil and Argentina all experience various degrees of economic and currency-related stress as the balance of risks to emerging market economies appears to have increased. While, these events in isolation are unlikely to drive Fed policy, if troubles in emerging markets rise to the level of impacting global growth, then that may start to cause the Fed to be more cautious in raising rates as a slowdown overseas would likely impact the U.S. too. What To Watch For The Fed raising rates in a few weeks at their September meeting is unlikely to surprise markets. Nonetheless, Fed watchers will be looking for clues as to the future path of interest rates in 2019. To the extent the Fed highlights new risks to the domestic economy or international markets, then that may point to a slower path of rate hikes over the next 18 months as the Fed takes a more cautious stance. However, if the Fed sees indications that its key inflation target of 2% may be exceeded for the medium term as price rises heat up, then we should expect a faster path of rate hikes. Currently the market firmly expects a September rise and are pretty confident in another hike around the end of this year. However, the more debated question is the path for rates in 2019. Currently the market is on the fence about a rate rise on or after March 2019, yet more hawkish observers see a total of four rate increases between now and next summer putting rates up to 3%. Though that scenario would likely be underpinned by broadly positive economic data, it would likely be a negative for financial markets and one reason to stay at the shorter end of the yield curve.