The Rodrigo Duterte administration is beginning to come to grips with the Philippines' new economic woes. For a starter, consumer prices are soaring. Inflation accelerated to 6.4% in the third quarter, prompting the Philippine central bank (Bangko Sentral) to respond with a rate hike of 50 basis points, its largest in a decade. Growth is also beginning to suffer. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) recently projected that the Philippine government will almost certainly miss its growth target of 7% to 8% for the year, settling at around 6.7%, instead. Amid the ongoing economic fallout, Duterte has sought the advice of controversial former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, who has, almost overnight, become the Philippines’ co-president. The good thing, though, is that Arroyo, a Western-trained economist, brings much-needed experience and technocratic acumen to help the populist president. The Politics of Inflation Inflation is a macroeconomic issue with wider political implications. After all, surveys by Pulse Asia Research consistently show that the cost of living is one of the "most urgent needs" of Filipinos. The Philippines’ falling currency, the weakest in almost 13 years, has only worsened the inflationary upsurge, which could spark a political backlash against the popular Duterte presidency. An overheating economy hits productivity (by raising operating costs), savings (by decreasing real interest rates), and, eventually, consumption. Crucially, it asymmetrically affects the most vulnerable sectors in the society, who spend a disproportionate share of their income on basic necessities. For low-income households (the bottom 30%), inflation in the second quarter rose to a record high of 6.5%, according to the Philippine Statistics Authority. The price of vegetables and fruits rose by 7.5%, corn by 10.8%, and fish by 11.1%. In Metro Manila, the poorest Filipinos experienced 6.6% inflation during the period. Crucially, the urban poor constitute more than half of the electorate, who will largely decide the fate of the Duterte administration in the upcoming mid-term elections in 2019. In fact, recent surveys show a significant drop in Duterte’s approval rating in urban areas, especially among the lower income sector. This is likely due to public discontent over rising inflation, which has been brought about by a combination of new tax reforms as well as rising oil prices and a falling currency. Arroyonomics to Rescue In July, shortly before Duterte’s third State of the Nation Address (SONA), Arroyo and her allies made her the new Speaker of the 300-strong Philippine Congress. Shortly thereafter, Duterte sought her advice on tackling inflation, with the former president immediately arranging a high-profile meeting with economic ministers to address the deteriorating economic conditions. Amid the inflationary uptick, some of Arroyo's allies, including her former economic adviser and finance whiz Joey Salceda, have gone so far as calling on Duterte's economic managers to resign. Arroyo, a former economics professor, was the Philippine president throughout the first decade of the 21st century. Her tenure was largely controversial, thanks to a spate of corruption scandals, which saw her going down in history as the most unpopular Filipino president (net -53 satisfaction rating). Yet, she also initiated a series of crucial economic reforms, including fiscal tightening and a stable monetary policy, which turned the Philippines into a new growth hub in the region. For this reason, Duterte and his cabinet members treat her with extreme deference, giving the former president unique influence within the current administration. To ease inflation, Duterte's administration is exploring the expansion in palliative measures for the poorest households, including the fast tracking of the release of unconditional cash transfers (UCTs), the liberalization of rice imports, reductions in tariffs on basic food products, as well as increasing in the imports of cheap fuels. It remains to be seen whether the proposed economic measures will prove sustainable and effective, with some legislators and experts raising concerns over the health implications of cheaper imports of both fuel and food as well as the impact those imports may have on domestic producers. What’s clear, however, is that the populist Duterte needs to get all the help he can muster to deal with such complex technocratic issues. To some, Arroyo, who only few years ago was facing plenty of controversy, seems to be the woman of the hour.