No one should doubt the essential nature of central bank independence. Decisions over the course of monetary policy; the timing of changes in interest rates or money supply cannot be left to politicians. After all, they are largely guided by the electoral calendar as against exigent economic need. During the 1960’s and especially the 1970’s following the two Opec oil price shocks inflation in Europe was out of control. For example, in the middle of the decade prevailing inflation rates were United Kingdom 22%, Italy 20%, France 15% and West Germany 7% (1975 rates, Source: National Statistical Offices) As a result, amid stagnating economies in Western Europe, many central bankers set out compelling arguments for greater freedom to set monetary policy decisions unfettered by political interference. They fought and won the argument on the basis that in a free-market based economy a critical danger to financial stability or a trigger of systemic risk was not the activities of market forces, rather it was elected governments. An independent central bank would be politically colour blind and act as a restraining hand against rampant public sector borrowing and spending. The aftermath of the great global financial crisis in 2008/2009 saw the major central banks dramatically flood their respective economies with monetary accommodation. Key interest rates were cut to almost zero and vast swaths of credit was created to finance asset purchases in the process known as “quantitative easing”. The expansion of central bank balance sheets and the ensuing bail out of commercial banks and in Europe, several sovereign nations saw many begin to question the direction of travel. The principle of “sound money” was being squandered to satisfy esurient markets. This is especially true in the case of the European Central Bank (ECB) for when the third President, Mario Draghi, guided the bank to vow to do “..whatever it takes…” (London on July 26, 2012), to save the Euro he effectively added a second, some might say contradictory goal alongside the ECB’s primary mission of achieving price stability. This expansion of the mandate was seen as being the first time when the bank was exposed to European political demands. As it started its process of asset purchases, the then President of France, François Hollande, demanded to know what and how much French government debt the ECB would acquire. This was a brazen attempt to encroach upon its independence. The loudest criticism was that independent central banks were becoming far too secretive and had placed the interests of the cavalier commercial banks before those of the taxpayers. It was deemed an appropriate moment to exercise greater public control. I must disagree on this point as the rise of central bank independence as been matched by ever higher levels of transparency in the form of press conferences, the release of monetary policy committee minutes and the rise of forward guidance. Therefore, I am somewhat suspicious of European Union Finance Ministers who wish to discuss with the ECB the prospect of an interest rate increase from the zero rate it has been set at since March 2016. As the holder of the rotating European Union Presidency Austria said: Source: Reuters Austrian Finance Minister Hartwig Löger said placing pressure on the ECB was not his country's intention. Of course, the rate of interest in the Eurozone is a key metric for the economies of 19 nations. However, the prospect of them explicitly seeking to send a signal to the ECB is an unacceptable invasion of the central banks mission of independently stabling borrowing costs for the bloc. The ECB has maintained the “Refinancing Rate” at a record low for 30 months as inflation has not been above the target rate on a consistent basis since December 2012. In doing so it has had to be tireless in batting back criticism from Eurozone politicians, especially in the richer northern nations who are keen for rates to start being normalised. In stating his defence, President Draghi says it sets policy for the entire Eurozone, not just the larger economies who have quickly recovered from the economic crisis that began in 2008. The ECB plans to conclude its purchases of government bonds this year, however, it said that interest rates will remain on hold at least until the end of Q2 2019. Internal econometric models show that the inflation rate in Eurozone is expected to be 1.70% by the end of Q3 2018. Thereafter, it will only advance to 1.80% in 12 months’ time. In the long-term, the Eurozone inflation rate is projected to settle at 2.0% to 2.10% by 2020. Critics say that the ECB’s fixation with keeping a strong hold on monetary aggregates as well as the rate of inflation has dampened interest rates so that the Eurozone yield curve is at +95 basis points, the flattest it has been since June 2017. That is just half of the level when Draghi made his London speech about saving the Euro. Those that are keen to take back some influence over the regions monetary policy suggest that the banks policies, if one subscribes to the Mundell-Tobin effect, have made GDP growth lower. I think this is groundless as with zero nominal rates and low…but positive inflation one cannot have high real interest rates. In fact, the level of loans to the private sector form commercial banks has increased to EUR 11.02 Trillion in July 2018, the best level since the start of 2012 and just 0.73% off the all-time high of September 2011. Going further, some have argued that the sacrifice ratio under an independent central bank is higher, and economic flexibility is reduced as given low inflation rates wage contracts are negotiated less often. To my mind that is a point that proves the efficiency of the ECB in that it has earned such a strong reputation in controlling inflation that workers and unions inflationary expectations are muted and as such wage contracts do not require constant adjustment. Central bank independence fosters price stability and the driver for better growth comes from sensible flexible markets and business friendly fiscal policies. I say to the European political elite that seek to control the ECB, mind your business and attend to your own issues before discrediting the Euro still further. Stephen Pope ~ MarketMind