This story is part of Forbes' coverage of The Fab 50 2018. See the full list here. This year's Fab 50 list saw 17 new companies among its ranks. Here's a look at some of those joining the elite for the first time after outperforming their rivals in industries ranging from mobile gaming to mopeds. 1. ANTA Sports Products (China) The Fujian company was the first Chinese sportswear outfit to reach 10 billion yuan in annual sales. Started in 1991 as a shoemaker, the company now boasts 11,316 stores across China, its revenue split between footwear and apparel. It designed outfits for Chinese athletes in the Winter Olympics in South Korea this year and will be the official sportswear partner for the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing. Its roster of superstar endorsers includes Filipino boxer Manny Pacquiao; Kevin Garnett, once the NBA's highest-paid player; and former World No. 1 women's tennis player Jelena Janković. 2. Ashok Leyland (India) The Chennai vehicle maker is India's second-largest producer of commercial vehicles and ranks No. 4 globally in buses. Notching a 34% jump in revenue in its last fiscal year, the company boasts nine manufacturing plants--seven in India, one in the Middle East and one in the U.K. The flagship of the Hinduja Group, it's chaired by Dheeraj Hinduja, a third-generation scion of the clan. It turns 70 this month, but the Hindujas bought a stake only in 1987. 3. China Aoyuan Property Group (China) Headquartered in Guangzhou, the company develops high-end residential and commercial properties. Guo Ziwen started it in 1996 to tap the Hong Kong market. He later moved the company to the mainland and switched to developing sports properties. It now boasts properties in 80 cities in China, Australia and Canada. Guo and his brother, Guo Zining, own 54.1%. 4. Dali Foods Group (China) Headquartered in Fujian, the company makes and sells snacks and beverages. Founded in 1989 and listed in 2015, it operates 30 production bases. Its three most famous brands--Daliyuan baked pastry, Haochidian biscuits and Copico chips--led the company into markets that imports had previously dominated. Last year it branched into healthy and organic food and introduced a soy milk brand, Dou Ben Dou ("soybean itself"). Its founder and chairman, Xu Shihui, is now a billionaire and owns 85% with his wife and daughter. The company has close to zero debt. More On Forbes: Asia's Fab 50 2018: Malaysian Metal Company Presses Ahead 5. LONGi Green Energy Technology (China) This Xi'an company makes solar cells and modules. Started in 2000 and listed in 2012, It counts 17,700 employees and branches on four continents. Its net profit grew by 126% last year. Founder Li Zhenguo, his wife, Li Xiyan, and a schoolmate from Lanzhou University, Li Chun'an, together own 31.3%. Despite the 30% tariff on Chinese solar panels shipped to the U.S. since February, the company signed a $600 million contract in July to sell solar modules there. 6. Netmarble (South Korea) The country's largest mobile gaming company saw net profit jump 83% last year to nearly $275 million. Its fantasy-based Lineage 2: Revolution has become a hit around the world, but especially in nearby markets such as Taiwan and Japan. In April the Seoul outfit invested $190 million in K-Pop sensation BTS and says it will release a game based on the seven-member boy band this year. Bang Jun-Hyuk, a high school dropout, started the company in 2000; it now employs more than 3,000 people and attracts players from 155 countries. 7. Open House (Japan) Founded in 1997 in Tokyo by Masaaki Arai, who is now a billionaire, this real estate broker also develops single-family homes in the country's biggest cities. Its motto: "Let's find a house in Tokyo." Listed in 2013, it has served more than 13,000 people in and around Tokyo and has sold more than 5,000 properties. 8. Outsourcing Inc. (Japan) Haruhiko Doi started this Tokyo staffing company in 1997; he remains the chairman and chief executive. It targets companies in the manufacturing, engineering and service industries and now lists 88 subsidiaries in 17 countries on four continents. In April it bought 56% of OTTO Holding, which supplies staff in the Netherlands and Germany through its recruitment network in eastern Europe. Sales grew 71.4% last year, thanks to the increasing mobility of workers across borders. More On Forbes: Asia's Fab 50 2018: Indian Vehicle Makers Debut On List Of Region's Top Companies 9. Ronsheng Petrochemical (China) Li Shuirong started making polyester cloth in a Hangzhou factory in 1989. Today the company produces polyester products and chemicals from coal with 7,900 employees, and Li is a billionaire. Recently the government gave Rongsheng's state-backed joint venture the green light to import 5 million tons of crude oil, paving the way to build an oil-refining complex on the island of Zhoushan, near Shanghai. 10. Tianneng Power International (China) China's largest electric vehicle battery supplier started in 1986 and listed in Hong Kong in 2007. Based in Zhejiang Province, the company employs more than 19,000 people and operates nine production centers. Most of its revenue comes from sales of batteries for electric bikes and cars. Chairman and founder Zhang Tianren owns 36.5% of the company with his wife. More On Forbes: Asia's Fab 50 2018: Indian Shopping Sensation Finds Online Retailing Is Rabidly Competitive 11. TVS Motor (India) The 39-year-old Chennai company is India's last moped maker and also makes scooters, motorcycles and three-wheelers. It runs four manufacturing sites--including one in Indonesia--and saw revenue climb 36% and net profit surge 33%, to $101 million, in its last fiscal year. In December it took a stake in Bangalore electric vehicle startup Ultraviolette Automotive. 12. Unisplendour (China) Founded in 1999 in Beijing, this company provides information technology services. It traces its roots to the city's Tsinghua University, and its former chairman, Victor Zhao, is a Tsinghua alumnus and now a billionaire. Hailing from a village in Xinjiang Province, Zhao worked his way through college by helping friends write software and fixing their television sets. Last year the company saw a 90.1% jump in net income thanks to the government's growing efforts to promote high-tech industries. 13. Vingroup Joint Stock Co. (Vietnam) This Hanoi conglomerate was started by Pham Nhat Vuong, the wealthiest Vietnamese and the country's first billionaire. He made his first fortune when he sold his instant noodle business to Nestlé in 2010. He then started Vincom, a developer of high-end townships, and Vinpearl, which builds luxury resorts and hotels. They merged to form Vingroup in 2012. A year ago Vingroup launched Vinfast, an automaker aiming to produce up to 500,000 vehicles annually by 2025. Last month it announced plans to build a tech hub in Hanoi to expand into artificial intelligence and big data and employ 100,000 technology students within ten years. 14. Welcia Holdings (Japan) This Tokyo-based retailer operates 1,747 drug and cosmetics stores around the country. Started in 2008, the company primarily sells over-the-counter products, which produced a 39.7% profit margin last year. It also offers counseling services and long-term at-home eldercare. Many Welcia drugstores stay open until midnight or 24 hours. Waiting In The Wings These rising stars are primed to crack the Fab 50 in the years ahead. 