 The U.S. Energy Information Administration released a report on Wednesday offering new evidence supporting the importance of natural gas replacing coal as the leading fuel source for the electricity generation sector of the economy. Per the EIA, "U.S. energy-related carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions in 2017 fell to 5.14 billion metric tons, 0.9% lower than their 2016 levels, and coal emissions were the primary driver behind the decline." This was not a result of coal becoming "cleaner" - though power generators continue to work on the development of cleaner coal technologies - but of a significant number of retirements of older coal-fired power plants during 2017, the vast majority of the capacity for which was replaced by combined cycle natural gas capacity. The end result is that, while carbon dioxide emissions in the U.S. actually rose in the Industrial, Transportation and Residential/Commercial economic sectors, the decrease in the Electricity sector of 4.6 percent was so substantial that it more than offset those increases. Overall, U.S. carbon emissions for 2017 are 14 percent lower than they were in 2005 , a time frame during which the domestic economy grew by 20 percent. The report notes that "Compared with the levels in 2005, U.S. economic growth in 2017 was 29% less carbon-intensive, and overall U.S. energy consumption was 12% less carbon-intensive." This EIA report comes on the heels of the BP Statistical Review of World Energy, which demonstrates that the 2017 reduction in carbon emissions by the U.S. far and away outpaced that of any other country . The second largest reduction from 2016 to 2017 was seen in the Ukraine, whose economy is less than 1/30th the size of that of the U.S.    The United States has been excoriated by the international community for pulling out of the Paris Climate Accord, to which all other nations on earth are signatories. But these new data points seem to render such criticisms more than a little specious. China's 2017 emissions rose by 1.6 percent over 2016. India's were up 4.4 percent, Indonesia's by 5.5 percent. In Europe, from which much of the criticisms of the U.S. have originated, more than half of all countries saw their emissions increase during 2017. Total emissions in Europe were up 2.5 percent during that time frame, and overall global emissions rose by 1.6 percent. And here's the dirty little secret few people like to admit: This was all made possible by the much-vilified oil industry process of hydraulic fracturing, or "Fracking" as its opponents prefer to call it. Let's all remember that, in 2005, natural gas was a fairly scarce resource, and its price averaged $7.33 for the year, according to EIA data. At that time, the Marcellus Shale was in the earliest stage of its development and few people had even heard of the Haynesville Shale. Today, these areas are America's largest and third-largest natural gas producing basins. The Permian Basin, the second-largest gas-producing basin today, was considered by most in the industry to be a dead play. Today, thanks to the ability to produce natural gas and crude oil from dense shale rock by wedding the technologies of horizontal drilling and "fracking," natural gas rivals coal as America's most abundant and affordable energy resource. Today, thanks to that abundance and affordability, it is not only feasible but economically and environmentally advantageous for power generation companies to retire older coal plants and replace them with natural gas capacity. Next time you run across a bunch of protesters holding up signs vilifying "fracking" and chanting anti-fracking slogans, you might want to roll down your window and remind them that the air they are drawing in so they can chant those slogans is much cleaner today largely thanks to the object of their opposition. Fracking says, "You're welcome, America!"   