Shares of Tsakos Energy Navigation (TNP) jumped almost 8% on Friday, following a positive analyst comment that came after the marine shipping concern reported less-than-stellar Q2 financial results. Tsakos said its fleet earned $124 million in gross revenues and $4.2 million in operating income. Excluding a marginal loss of $0.4 million from the sale of the VLCC Millennium, TNP incurred an uninspiring net loss of $9.2 million, which was actually a 23% improvement from the first quarter of 2018. Adjusted EBITDA did total $35.5 million and the loss could have been much worse if the company was more exposed to the spot tanker market. Further, fleet utilization increased to 96.2%, with two vessels undergoing dry-docking. Also, almost 80% of the fleet was employed on secured revenue contracts, with a third containing profit sharing provisions, which led the company’s fleet earnings to outperform the spot market by more than 100%. As difficulties in the tanker market continue, the company’s management team released the following commentary, “TNP’s industrial approach on vessel employment, and strategic asset dispositions ensures that the company maintains a solid balance sheet regardless of market conditions. Today with 80% of fleet available days and 62% and 44% for 2019 and 2020 respectively under secured revenue contracts, cash flow generation and visibility remain strong. So far this year, and in line with management’s efforts in maintaining a solid cash base, 23 vessels have new or extended long term business, including the two units purposely built for a major oil end-user. As a result, TNP’s minimum contracted revenue now stands at $1.2 billion with an average employment of 2.5 years. The divestment in the second quarter of the 1998-built VLCC Millennium which released $7.4 million of free cash after the repayment of $10.2 million of related debt is an added example of management’s actions to efficiently recycle the company’s vessels. In addition, since the beginning of this year, TNP has raised $4.6 million through the at-the-market sale of common shares, mostly from treasury stock.” COO George Saroglou added, “TNP is determined to ensure maximum protection against the downside in one of the weakest periods for the tanker industry in recent memory. Our industrial model of keeping most of the fleet on long-term contracts safeguards revenue flows, avoiding the severe punishment inflicted by the spot market.” Perhaps the outlook is what inspired the analyst to maintain his enthusiasm for the stock. “Looking ahead, we are confident for the future and await for the critical fundamentals that may lead to a recovery to become more apparent by the end of the year. These fundamentals include a more balanced global fleet following a high level of scrapping, a slow-down in the pace of deliveries, increasing tanker demand arising from global growth, new refineries and adequate supply by increased U.S. and OPEC oil exports. In addition, the anticipated IMO 2020 disruptions will result to a healthier supply and demand equilibrium. TNP’s diversified fleet with a growing presence in shuttle tankers and LNG carriers, will increase its revenues and maximize cash flow and profitability for the benefit of shareholders,” Mr. Saroglou concluded. No doubt, TNP has been a disappointment for the last few years, and we have had numerous internal debates about its place in our portfolios. That said, overall, we desire the exposure and we feel that TNP is set up with its contract structure to navigate through the continued difficult tanker market, and not only survive, but thrive as things improve in the future. TNP shares change hands at 0.6 times estimated sales, 26% of book value per share and 1.8 times estimated cash flow, the three ratios well below the historical norms. With a relatively young fleet, a more subdued industry-wide order book going forward and relatively consistent growth in global oil demand likely for the foreseeable future, we continue to think this micro-cap name fits in well with the much more well-known integrated oil companies and oil-service names that account for the lion’s share of our Energy Sector exposure. Nevertheless, our Target Price for TNP has been lowered to $5.80. View our previously recommended stocks here. 