The hits just keep on coming from the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA). As the accelerating pace of technological advancement in the domestic oil and gas industry results in steadily-growing per well recoveries and efficiency gains, the numbers documenting the results take on an almost incomprehensible air. Consider some of the headlines we've seen in the U.S. energy news media in just the past 10 days: These are amazing data points, and don't include many others that could be noted, such as the fact that Texas's oil production in June of this year (3.15 million bopd) surpassed that of every OPEC nation other than Saudi Arabia and Iraq. One of the most impressive facets of the rapid rise in U.S. production since 2016 is that it has been achieved with an active rig count that is about 40% lower than it was just a half-decade ago. This reality demonstrates how important technological advancement and efficiency gains are to the oil and gas industry. The Haynesville Shale data point is particularly instructive in this regard. According to the DrillingInfo Daily Rig Count, the number of drilling rigs active in the Haynesville region has remained essentially unchanged over the past year. Yet, the EIA data shows Haynesville gas production ramping up from 4.2 bcf per day to about 6.5 bcf per day over that period time, an amazing 50% increase in just a year. That is truly stunning for a play area that was almost dormant for three years beginning in mid-2013. So why is this happening? The answers come down to two key factors: The net result is that operators are able to drill more wells in shorter time and recover more natural gas and petroleum liquids from each well. Efficiency gains in the completion process also enable the operators to get each well online and producing quicker than was formerly possible. That's how you get to a 50% gain year-over-year in basin productivity without increasing the rig count. These gains are not isolated to the Haynesville region - they're taking place all over the country. This is why it was possible for the Bureau of Land Management to conduct that billion dollar lease sale in New Mexico's piece of the Permian Basin a few weeks ago, a sale that netted an average per-acre bonus payment of an unprecedented $95,000. Two years ago, before all the recent gains in efficiency and technologies, a similar lease sale would have no doubt fetched a fraction of that.  It is these kinds of gains that advocates of the goofy, always-wrong "Peak Oil" theories never take into account . They invariable assume that the oil and gas industry just a static, low-technology beast that is based on nothing but brute force and luck. The reality, of course, is that it is one of the most high-tech industries on the face of the earth, led by engineers, geologists and other scientists who advance efficiencies and improve technologies each and every day. While various prophets of doom predict "peak oil" or some inevitable decline in the industry to begin taking place in just the next few years, the reality is that this industry is just in the infancy of its shale revolution. The gains in efficiencies and technology are not nearing an end - they are in fact just getting started. Absent some global, demand-killing economic calamity, we can expect U.S. oil and natural gas production to continue to increase for many years to come . That isn't idle speculation - as recent headlines and EIA data clearly show, this is the "new normal" for the domestic oil and gas industry. 