Scotland’s busiest airport is facing cutbacks by two of its most coveted airlines in a blow to the gateway’s long-haul expansion plans. Emirates Airline disclosed on Monday that frequencies for its soon-to-be-launched Edinburgh route will be reduced from seven to five times daily. Dubai’s flag-carrier is axing its flights on Tuesdays and Wednesdays between October 28th and June 1st, 2019 (not including the peak festive period). The announcement came days after low-cost long-haul pioneer Norwegian Air confirmed that it was dropping the last of its three transatlantic routes from the capital – to Stewart in New York State – having already grounded Providence in Rhode Island, and Bradley in Connecticut. The airline blamed the Scottish government’s backtracking of plans to halve Air Passenger Duty (APD). Taxation has a disproportionately heavy impact on the viability of low-cost flights, though many airlines also scapegoat taxes for the failure of routes that have underperformed in their own right. That appears to be the case here given that Norwegian simultaneously cancelled both of its transatlantic flights from Belfast Airport, which is exempt from long-haul APD charges. Emirates did not mention APD when announcing its frequency reduction. The big three Persian Gulf carriers – Emirates, Etihad Airways and Qatar Airways – have hit turbulence in recent years due to regional instability, lower oil prices and the emergence of low-cost long-haul business models. But cannibalization of demand for Emirates’ existing twice-daily service to Glasgow is likely to have been the main factor in its Edinburgh revision. The Dubai flag-carrier says it expects to resume daily services to Edinburgh in summer 2019. As previously announced, Etihad will next month stop linking the Scottish capital with Abu Dhabi as part of a wide-ranging restructuring. Notwithstanding the recent pullback by long-haul operators, 2018 has been a year of growth for Edinburgh Airport. The gateway achieved its busiest ever month in July – handling more than 1.5 million passengers – and in June it opened its first direct link to East Asia: a four-times weekly flight from Beijing operated by Hainan Airlines. 