European markets and U.S. futures are trading higher by ignoring Trump’s statement from yesterday at the United Nations General Assembly. His speech pushed the markets lower yesterday but traders have chosen to ignore the geopolitical tensions for now. Perhaps, the equity market is more optimistic about the oil price hitting the 4-year high, and there seems to be no end in sight given that Trump is increasing the pressure about putting a stop on the Iranian oil export. Speaking at the United Nations headquarters yesterday, he stated: "OPEC and OPEC nations are as usual ripping off the rest of the world, and I don't like it." It is clearly in the United States’ best interest, that should the oil price stay where it is, it would give a much stronger incentive to U.S. shale oil producers for pumping more oil. But, if you take a look at the inflation equation of the country, then yes, higher oil prices do not paint a rosy picture. The trade-off is that a lower oil price equals a downward spiral for the U.S. shale oil industry. This brings the inflation in check. The alternative is that higher oil prices will boost the U.S. shale growth, which anchors the inflation in the country. Trump also hit his stride during the speech and made his stance clear about the ongoing trade war. He was acute with his approach that the U.S. would “no longer tolerate abuse”. His reiteration shows that the president is not scared of escalating the trade war. This is despite the fact that China has shown no mercy towards the USA. Beijing’s message is simple- they will not tolerate this kind of demeanor. Traders are obviously having enough of this childish behavior but it is a matter of fact that this is not something which will let light-hearted people survive in the market. Hence, the portfolios should have immaculate risk allocations. Trump continued to aim his criticism of the Iranian government and this is likely to encourage more rebellious behaviour in Iran. As a result, this equates to higher geopolitical uncertainty. The currency devaluation in Iran is certainly causing some tensions, however the Iranian government is well-prepared this time. Moving away from Trump and his stance, one thing which is as certain as death, is that the Federal Reserve will increase the interest rate today. The third rate hike in the country is not a surprise to anyone as it was well telegraphed by the Fed. Moreover, given the strength of the U.S. consumer confidence data (released yesterday), it is almost certain that the glide path of the Fed policy is not going to change anytime soon. The data showed that the economy is outranking any scale, since due to the weekly jobless claims being at their lowest levels going back all the way to November 1969 and consumer confidence sitting at its 18-year high, the glass ceiling is not too far. Hence, investors would be looking at the optimism among the Fed members and this is why the dot plot would be highly useful. We need to know what the posture of the new vice-chair Richard Clarida is. He is known for having a somewhat balanced approach toward the current Fed policy. Moreover, he holds no grudge against the eight interest rate hikes (including today's) since December 2015. Remember also, that the new projections for future inflation and the GDP forecast will hit the headlines too. What will be even more fascinating, is the statement of the Fed Chairman, Jerome Powell. Keep an eye on the press conference- if he is aggressive in his tone and the outlook for the rate hike becomes stronger, then we could see the dollar index ripping towards the upside. The index is down nearly 2.94 percent from its peak of $96.98 formed on September 15th. A higher dollar index is also likely to push the 10-year yield towards its peak, as it was witnessed earlier this year. What we will have on our hand are: the emerging market crisis, the trade war and the geopolitical tensions. Therefore, I believe that the Fed would be more cautious in their approach and the press conference will be more controlled rather than full of fireworks 