Crude and Brent oil prices are flirting with multi-year highs. Year-to-date, crude oil is up whopping at 23.47% and Brent has gained nearly 25.55%. At the time of writing this article, crude oil was trading at $72.10 and Brent was trading at $80.40. What instigated this move is the question that many are asking, as surely Trump doesn’t like higher oil prices and had tweeted several times about this. The truth of the matter is that Trump’s tweet about lower oil prices has had little to no effect on the prices. Last week, Trump used his favorite platform Twitter to share his frustration about the Brent price being near $80. However, his tweet fell on deaf ears because there is literally still no effect on the price today. Even the biggest oil cartel, OPEC did not pay much attention to Donald Trump’s rants about higher oil prices during their meeting which had taken place over the weekend. But before we sweep further into the OPEC meeting and its outcome, it is worth looking at Trump’s tweets about the lower oil prices and the impact on those over the last five months. Since his first tweet back in April where he mentioned, “Oil prices are artificially very high! No good and will not be accepted,” the prices of oil have gained nearly 12.81%. Thanks to the plunging oil output from Venezuela and sanctions on Iran, both have contributed to increased oil prices. There is clear U.S. political pressure on the countries which are importing oil from Iran. Since the sanctions have been announced, South Korea has dropped oil import to nearly zero from Iran but on the other hand, countries like Turkey and Japan have reduced very little oil import from Iran. Nonetheless, there is a huge pressure on all U.S. allies to cut their oil supplies from Iran and the fact is that countries are complying. The only difference is that in some places you are seeing much larger cuts than in others. Going back to the OPEC meeting, the OPEC ministers met in Algeria on Sunday to think a way forward about the ongoing challenges for the cartel. Their response to Trump’s tweet was simple; no additional supply boost. This means that they did not pay any attention to what Trump has said and are not willing to increase the supply. Generally speaking, higher oil supply should push the price lower. Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih’s response was the most intriguing as he said, “I do not influence prices.” Clearly, the biggest oil producer of the OPEC has no interest to disturb the oil equilibrium now. Non-OPEC oil producer, Russia also echoed a similar message and made it clear that the country has no interest in playing with the oil equation now. The cartel’s only interest is to put a leash on the wildcatters from Texas to North Dakota. They have added major threats for the cartel. Since 2010, the three major shale basins have added nearly 5.05 million barrels a day , something which OPEC needs to keep a close eye on. Of course, it isn’t in the cartel’s favor to keep the prices higher because this will simply attract more oil producers. But the matter of the fact is that both OPEC and Non-OPEC producers, particularly Saudi Arabia and Russia need to leave the oil prices at a current level in order to keep the growth going and to maintain their exuberant expenses.