The contrarians and perma-bears have to be the most frustrated lot in the investing world today. The yuan won't crash. Emerging markets won't just all die off, already. And the 10-year old bull market in U.S. equities keeps attracting new buyers despite high valuations. The end is not so near, after all. Foreign ownership of Chinese equities and bonds has grown 64% over the past 12 months to $435 billion in total, according to Z-Ben Advisors. Emerging market Poland was upgraded to “developed market” by the FTSE Russell, making it the first emerging market to be promoted to developed market status in nearly 10 years. And this on the backs of a constant call to get out of emerging markets due to crises in Turkey, Argentina and South Africa, which are all domestic creations. “We stick to our view that the worst is over and,” says Gabriel Gerzstein, head of emerging market strategy for BNP Paribas in Sao Paulo. “After the sell-off, the risk-reward of emerging markets looks attractive.” BNP Paribas' portfolio flow model predicts a pickup in emerging market portfolio inflows for the fourth quarter, now underway. Meanwhile, brent oil is holding above $80 per barrel and close to a four-year high. Iran sanctions and some producers having refrained from increasing production have pushed oil futures higher. Oil prices over $80 are good for Russia, a country still facing sanctions from the U.S. and Europe. Their federal budget is based on oil prices of around $50 a barrel. This is a windfall for them. “Trump is determined to bring the Iranian crude needle to zero and this is keeping the crude price high ,” says Naeem Aslam, chief market strategist for ThinkMarkets and a Forbes contributor. ThinkMarkets believes the average price for crude will remain around $75 per barrel for U.S. WTI and over $80 for Brent. Consumer confidence in September shot to another high on Tuesday, beating consensus estimates. September’s index total is near the all-time high of 144.7 reached in the dot-com bubble year of 2000, according to the Conference Board. The trade war has had no measurable impact on sentiment. “Consumers’ assessment of current conditions remains extremely favorable, bolstered by a strong economy and robust job growth,” says Lynn Franco, director of economic indicators at The Conference Board. The Expectations Index—a measure of consumer thoughts on spending for the months ahead—also rose this month, “suggesting solid economic growth exceeding three percent for the remainder of the year,” Franco says. This really is one of the best U.S. economies anyone has seen in some time. And no, it is not a leftover of the Obama recovery, an economy that was basically lifted by the Fed. Today’s equity bull market has more to do with regulatory rollback and tax cuts than anything ex-president Obama did. The bears cannot cut a break. Remember when the Chinese yuan was a sure thing to surpass 7-to-1? George Soros bet that it would. The dollar-yuan exchange rate is an important market indicator. Any drop in the yuan is generally regarded as indicating a “risk-off” moment for global investors, and a headwind for emerging markets. But the current forex situation between the two currencies is somewhat market-supportive, with big Chinese banks taking dollars out of circulation, helping to keep the yuan stable. Despite what seems to be never-ending good times for equity investors, the U.S. stock market started the week in sell-mode. U.S.-China trade talks broke down again. Political risk will weigh on markets until the November midterm elections results are in. Reports that U.S. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein might resign or be fired was a negative on Monday. “So far, markets have tended to ignore the comings and goings of White House personnel, but the midterm Congressional elections in early November are starting to come into focus,” says Neil MacKinnon, an economist for VTB Capital in London. The Democrats are favored to win the House of Representatives based on generic ballots rather than actual candidates. There are roughly 14 toss-up seats. The Democrats have to win them all to take control of the House. “I don't think that even matters,” says Scott Clemons, a market strategist with Brown Brothers Harriman. “We still have a strong economy, and new presidents tend to lose the House anyway. It’s not a surprise if it flips. Though if you think Washington is chaotic now, just you wait.” Fed tightening will continue, giving some hope to market contrarians. Gerzstein of BNP Paribas doubts changes in the Fed balance sheet will harm liquidity. “The world still has plenty of it,” he says. The Federal Reserve’s Open Markets Committee ends its policy meeting tomorrow with a 25 basis points increase in the Fed funds rate expected. The increase will take the overnight lending rate to around 2.25%. The market is giving an 80% probability of a further 25 bps hike in December.