Fortune favors the bold. It is one of my favorite axioms and I often apply it to investing. The recent history of the markets has shown that investing with bold management teams--Bezos and co. at Amazon and Hastings and co. at Netflix are two examples--has proven to be incredibly lucrative for shareholders. On the flipside there is General Electric, a company that seems devoid of bold thinkers. As GE shares plummet to new nine-year lows today and seem headed inexorably toward $10 per share, GE's lack of action on a number of fronts has led to extraoirdinary destruction of shareholder value. In March 2000, GE was worth $600 billion; today’s GE share price drop has taken the market capitalization below $100 billion. The most damning evidence of GE's lack of boldness in the past decade was the portrayal of GE's former CEO Jeff Immelt--in a piece of excellent reporting by the Wall Street Journal--as a leader detached from reality and surrounded by yes men who declined to give him bad news. Well, there is plenty of bad news at GE now, not just the stock price, most notably last week's admission that GE HA-Series turbines have had multiple instances of blade oxidation. Immelt is long gone, but CEO John Flannery and his board could do three bold things that would, in my opinion, reverse the stock’s historic decline. I am not optimistic that any of these three options will be taken, thus I don't own GE shares, but they provide a roadmap for a turnaround of this seemingly always sinking market value. Sell GE's stake in Baker Hughes. With oil prices quoted today above $72 per barrel on the West Texas Intermediate benchmark and above $81 per barrel on the European benchmark, Brent, this is the time for GE to monetize its 62.5% stake in BHGE. The U.S. oil rig count (as measured, coincidentally, by Baker Hughes) was 1,053 as of last Friday, and that figure has doubled in the past 24 months, with a steady rate of growth throughout that period. The correction in oil markets is over, and managements need to forget about the pain of the 2014-2015 crash and move forward. For GE's board that means monetizing its BHGE stake now, and using the cash proceeds--$23.1 billion at BHGE’s current share price--to pay down debt and repurchase common shares. Omit the dividend and begin an aggressive share repurchase plan. While market pundits often criticize companies that repurchase shares as those shares are losing value, it is in fact the best time to do it. The other use of cash, GE's payout of $4.2 billion in common dividends on annualized basis, is entirely ineffective now. A quick look at GE stock chart would show that, but a more analytical approach is to gauge the company's yield versus its peers. GE's current 4.20% yield is more than double that of the S&P 500's 1.74% yield, and the market is clearly giving GE no credit for that payout. I travel among the fraternity of income investors, and there is not a single income fund manager I know (including myself) who is buying GE shares now. The dividend is not working, and providing an incremental buyer for GE shares would result in significant anti-dilution, more than 4% at GE’s current market value. Finally, the boldest move GE's board could make would be to get rid of Flannery and his team of homegrown underperformers. I would put special focus on GE Power President Russell Stokes because there is no way the HA-Series blade oxidation issue should have occurred. Ultimately, though, the CEO is responsible, and GE shares have declined 56% under Flannery's watch in the midst of a roaring bull market. I don't think regime change is going to happen at GE--the main reason I am not buying GE shares--but if it did, that would be a sign that GE's board of directors is finally ready to make bold actions to reverse the company’s--and its stock's--slide into irrelevance.