Following calls for OPEC and non-OPEC oil producers to "institutionalize" their association, OPEC Secretary Mohammed Sanusi Barkindo has said the partnership is here to stay. Speaking at the Gulf Intelligence Energy Markets Forum in Fujairah, United Arab Emirates on Tuesday (September 18), Barkindo said OPEC is in fact looking at looking at having "a long-term cooperation agreement" with non-OPEC oil producers, the framework for which could be in place by December. The accord has seen the collective withdrawal of 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd) of oil production from the market in a bid to support crude prices. The move came in the wake of the 2015 slump. At its last meeting in June, both parties agreed to bring a "nominal" 1 million bpd of production back to market by reducing compliance with ongoing cuts down from 152% to 100%.    "What we are working on now is to make it [cooperation] more permanent and institutionalize the framework. Our target is to have a longer cooperation framework in place by December when we reconvene in Vienna [for the next OPEC meeting]," Barkindo said. The OPEC Secretary General also said he expects crude oil demand to grow in the foreseeable future with oil and gas dominating the energy market until 2040. "What is required now and is also of great concern not only for us but also for consumers is the ability to continue to attract investment in the predictable fashion to meet the current oil demand and also the future demand." Entering the Iran debate, following the unilateral imposition of sanctions on Tehran by U.S. President Donald Trump, Barkindo expressed solidarity with the Islamic republic but said little beyond that. "Iran is not only a founding member of OPEC and it is an important member of OPEC. It is a third biggest producer within OPEC, so together we will have to work with all parities not only to confront current challenges that are emerging but also together fashion a way moving forward." Analyst chatter at the event pointed to Trump sanctions knocking up to 1.4 million bpd of Iranian exports offline, if not more, which is putting buyers on the spot ahead of a November cut-off date for the sanctions coming into force. Japan and India have both expressed public concerns. Speaking to your correspondent in Fujairah, Arjuna Ranatunga, Minister of Petroleum from Sri Lanka, a major Asian crude buyer, said the escalation of tension between Washington and Tehran was placing "undue strain" on buyers. "To be honest we are struggling with the situation and U.S. demands, but the Sri Lankan economy is not alone. As a government, we are scrambling to mitigate the effects [of the U.S. move on Iran] on our consumers by curtailing Iranian supplies, but Washington must recognize it will not be easy." 