There will come a time in the future when oil demand stops growing, but recent forecasts putting that date in 2023, five years from today, should be viewed with skepticism. Long-term forecasts about oil market behavior are notoriously wrong and often come back to embarrass those who make aggressive calls. Recall the “peak oil” supply projections that permeated markets a decade ago, how did that work? The industry now finds itself in an unprecedented “era of abundance” thanks the prolific shale revolution. The supply picture is so robust that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and some non-OPEC partners, led by Russia, have deliberately kept 1.8 million barrels a day of production off the market since late 2016 to prevent global crude prices from crashing. The latest forecasts predicting oil demand will peak in 2023 come from the Carbon Tracker Initiative, a London-based think tank funded by a host of anti-fossil fuel foundations seeking stricter climate policies, and DNV GL, a Norwegian risk analysis outfit focused on sustainable investment. The two groups have an ax to grind with the oil industry, with agendas predicated on the demise of the fossil fuel business. Anything they can do to hasten the process, all the better. We shouldn’t dismiss their research as purely the product of politics. Even major oil companies are discussing the topic of peak oil demand. When Royal Dutch Shell CEO Ben van Beurden said earlier this year that demand for oil could peak as early as 2025, it was a major headline. But a closer examination of Van Beurden’s comments reveal some major qualifications. Van Beurden described peak demand in 2025 as the “Goldilocks scenario” whereby all countries abide by the rules outlined in the 2015 Paris climate accord. That’s not happening. President Trump withdrew the United States from the agreement last year, and its future globally continues to look in doubt based on the United Nation’s most recent climate conference in Bangkok. The problem with peak oil demand forecasts is that there are too many variables at play. Good luck trying to forecast how rapidly the low-carbon energy transition will play out. Small changes in assumptions – about technology development, the penetration of electric vehicles, the cost of renewable and alternative energy sources versus conventional fossil fuels – can lead to vastly different conclusions. The energy transition will happen over the coming decades, but an array of political, economic and social considerations will determine how long it actually takes to “de-carbonize” the entire global energy system, if ever. A more realistic assessment from Shell Oil is that oil demand continues to grow over the next 20 years, a view shared by rival BP and energy consultants like Wood Mackenzie. More importantly, most believe peak oil will have a long tail and that oil demand – set to reach 100 million barrels a day this year – won’t fall off abruptly even after it peaks. Instead, it should be considered a plateau rather than a sharp peak. That’s because even if electric vehicles have remarkable penetration in the transportation market, oil demand is still expected grow in other sectors, including trucking, aviation and especially petrochemicals. Demand for products ranging from fertilizers to plastics and beauty products will drive roughly a quarter of the expected oil demand growth over the next five years, according to the International Energy Agency (IEA). Large emerging economies like China and India are still busy building massive new refineries and petrochemical facilities with price tags the size of a small country’s GDP, even as they roll out aggressive targets for adopting electric vehicles. These nations are hedging their bets. The industry’s top concern is the changes in investor perception that can occur once demand for oil stops growing. Psychology is a powerful driver in markets. All one has to do is look at what’s happened to America’s coal industry over the last 15 years to understand how the idea that an industry is dying can take hold. Once demand peaked, investors ran for the exits and valuations tanked, even though coal still accounts for roughly 30% of power generation nationwide. But oil and gas companies are different animals. Indeed, most “oil” companies also sit on vast reserves of natural gas, a fuel that is already playing a huge role in the low-carbon energy transition. The switch to natural gas by utilities is the primary reason carbon emissions in this country hit a 25-year low in 2017. The assets most vulnerable to peak oil hysterics are expensive, “long-cycle” projects with high break-even costs that take billions of dollars to develop because stakeholders expect them to produce for decades. Canada’s oil sands are exposed and some major oil companies have abandoned these projects in recent years. The U.S. oil industry, specifically the shale sector, continues to be a good investment as the world meanders toward peak demand, whenever it may occur. Shale is a “short-cycle” oil play where production can be brought onstream in a matter of months after an investment decision. That makes it an incredibly flexible asset for its owners, who can ramp output up or down relatively quickly based on market conditions. Breakeven costs are also low, which helped shale prevail in the recent price war with OPEC. When you hear breathless exaltations about the coming of peak oil demand, take them with a grain of salt. Yes, we are moving toward reducing consumption of oil through efficiencies and innovation in alternative energy technologies, but there’s a long way to go to find viable substitutes that can equal the energy potency of oil. Our best option so far, natural gas, is produced in association with oil. Investors shouldn't put their heads in the sand and forget about the risks of peak demand completely, but at this stage, there’s no reason to panic. 