It has been nearly 10 years since the S&P 500, Dow Jones Industrial Average, or Nasdaq Composite Indexes have been truly been in a “bear market.” Now, technically speaking, a bear market is a 20% decline in price from any point. When that happens over many months or even years, I view it as a bear. And as an investment manager, I am most concerned with preventing as much damage as I can from the major bear markets that come along once or twice a decade. These are the ones that can reverse your retirement plans, cause emotional trauma, and lead to a lot of finger-pointing about who should have seen it coming. We are not at the point in this stock market cycle where a bear market is front of mind for most investors. And while the bear has not infested the mainstream of the U.S. stock market, there are some signs that investors will get around to those headline indexes before too long. I say that because there are several market segments (and certainly many individual stocks) that have hit the 20% decline mark or were very close as of early September. They may not be getting mainstream attention, but they are worth noting under the category of “canaries in the coal mine.” Here are some that I found. These are all measured from the January 26, 2018 top in the S&P 500. Gold mining stocks (GDX) – speaking of yellow things and mines, while the price of gold has yet to regain its status as the prime investment of fearful investors, the stocks of gold miners have been hit hard. Solar stocks (TAN) – oil prices have bobbed up and down recently, as they often do. But they have stayed at elevated levels as compared to last year. That and the political trends favoring “old” energy sources versus solar and other alternatives have hurt solar stocks. Emerging Markets stocks (EEM) – as in many past global crises, the Emerging Markets have broken down first. Whether it’s Turkey, South Africa or a number of other troublesome spots in the developing world, the EM has been in a downtrend most of the year. Latin America stocks (ILF) – it is no surprise to see this make the list, since Latin stocks make up a decent chunk of the Emerging Markets Index (Asian stocks have a larger weighting). China stocks (MCHI) – I saved the most troublesome for last. Is it the tariff pressure that could give way to an all-out trade war? Is it the enormous debt that China’s economy has built up, alongside its heady economic growth rate? Is it the strength of the U.S. Dollar? It could be all those and more. But regardless of the cause, the important thing is that the stock market of a major world power is in bear market territory. We will see whether these are isolated cases, or if they signal a domino effect for global equities. These are all areas considered to be volatile ones by investors. You would not put the bulk of your retirement nest egg in this group of market segments. But in investing, it pays to watch the trend, and this is a trend that bears watching…pun intended. For research and insight on these issues and more, click HERE.