The night air is getting nippy and baseball playoffs are about to start. We’re 75% of the way through 2018, and autumn earnings loom. Before that, however, the new week brings a closely watched payrolls report. While payrolls are likely to hog the spotlight in the days ahead, the end of Q3 is often a good time to start assessing the year so far and thinking ahead to the final three months. Earnings season doesn’t really get underway until mid-month, so the next week and a half or so might be a chance for investors to step back from the hectic pace of the market and get a broader view of the bigger picture. The Q3 earnings is often a good time to get insight on how corporate and economic health might be shaping up for the full year. By next month, we’ll have three quarters of company results in hand, with guidance for Q4 from many. We’ll also know the government’s estimate for Q3 economic growth. Additionally, there’s a growing sense that the Fed is likely to finish the year with four rate hikes, according to the futures market, and that more hikes might be waiting around the corner in early 2019.    Long-term investors might want to listen closely to major company earnings calls this month to hear what’s going on in the trenches. While trade is likely to grab lots of attention (see more below), it’s also a chance to find out what CEOs have to say about the dollar’s impact on business, how they plan to deal with rising energy costs, and whether they’ve felt the full impact of the recent tax reform. Are companies plowing more money into their businesses for research and development, or are they giving money back in the form of buybacks and dividend increases? Sometimes, you can get a sense of corporate optimism or pessimism from hearing about those plans. Share buybacks in the first half of 2018 rose nearly 50% from the same period a year earlier, with the tech sector leading the way, research firm CFRA reported. All of that is big picture stuff. The market is likely to react more quickly to the actual numbers, and so far there’s little indication of earnings tailing off from the last two quarters of strong growth. CFRA predicts S&P 500 earnings growth of 21.7% in Q3, down just a bit from the 25.2% recorded in Q2. It sees the biggest gains coming from energy, materials, and financials. Interestingly, tech earnings are seen up just 17%, below the S&P average, perhaps in part because the sector is starting to face some tough comparisons. Watch The Ticker Tape in coming weeks for sector and company earnings previews. Looking more closely at the week ahead, September payrolls this Friday stand tall as the biggest data point. In August, jobs growth reached 201,000 while year-over-year wages rose 2.9%. That wages number was the biggest yearly climb since the days of the recession, but unlike earlier this year, the market didn’t have a defensive reaction. Inflation just doesn’t seem to be a big worry right now, perhaps because the Fed has moved so aggressively to raise rates this year. Last week’s Personal Consumption Expenditure (PCE) price report looked vanilla (see more below), and nothing really stood out in a big way from last month’s consumer or producer price index reports. That said, if wages tick up in a big way—say 3% or more—some eyebrows might rise. With unemployment of 3.9% at two-decade lows, there’s not a lot of traction in the economy for businesses to hire without paying up for talent. Workers seem aware of this, as a few strikes began in recent weeks. Away from the U.S., there’s still the potential for international issues to shake up the market in coming days, especially without any earnings reports yet to compete for headlines. Italy came into the news Friday as the government in Rome widened its budget deficit target for next year, something likely to raise tensions with other European Union countries. Speaking of tension, it’s also on the rise between the U.S. and Canada as U.S. and Canadian negotiators continue to clash over dairy industry subsidies. The question is whether issues can be resolved in time for Canada to join the U.S. and Mexico in a revamped North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). If the U.S. and Canada can’t reach a resolution, that could make the markets shiver as investors fret about the future of trade between the U.S. and its third-largest trading partner. Some analysts worry that supply chains could “unravel” if an agreement isn’t reached, Reuters reported Friday. The Fed meeting last week is history, but Fed Chair Jerome Powell isn’t going on vacation. He’s scheduled to speak Tuesday at the National Association for Business Economics’ annual meeting. It could be interesting to hear if he has any further comments on inflation and economic growth with the new quarter underway. Generally, the market seems to have shaken off last week’s rate hike. The 10-year Treasury note yield, which had climbed to a four-month high of 3.1%, retreated to 3.04% by midday Friday as investors for the most part gave the Fed’s “dot plot” of expected future rates a dovish read. At the same time, the dollar index climbed slightly on Friday to above 95. That’s below summer highs above 96, but might remain a factor to consider in coming days. Any climb in the dollar could put pressure on stocks as investors consider the potential impact on earnings. Company news, outside of the Tesla headlines Friday, is a little thin going into the new week. The major auto companies might get some attention Tuesday as they report September sales. Crude oil is another factor that might bear watching. U.S. futures prices are nearing their yearly highs, climbing above $73 a barrel early Friday. Much of the rally appears related to Iran sanctions, with speculative long positions on the rise as some investors anticipate tighter supplies if Iranian oil exits the market. The question is whether Saudi Arabia and Russia can make up for those missing barrels. Consider keeping an eye on the transport sector to see if higher energy costs start to weigh. First Things First: Though the market for now seems focused on the trade situation heating up, there may be a slight delay while investors absorb earnings news starting later this month. Earnings might provide more than a distraction from the constant background noise of trade battles. They might also provide some insight into trade’s possible impact on the economy. This coming quarter’s earnings calls are a good time for investors to consider paying close attention to what CEOs have to say about how the tariffs already in place are affecting their companies both now and potentially moving forward. Already, some executives have cited higher input costs due to tariffs. What Are CEO’s Saying? Trade could already be having an impact on business leader confidence. The Business Roundtable CEO Economic Outlook Index—which measures company plans for capital investment, hiring and sales—declined to 109.3 from 111.1 in Q2. Close to two-thirds of surveyed CEOs said recently enacted tariffs and pending trade policies will have a “moderate or significant negative effect” on their capital spending decisions in the coming months, The Wall Street Journal reported last week. In Q3, the share of firms planning to increase capital investment over the next six months decreased to 55% from 61% in the second quarter, while the share planning to expand hiring fell to 56% from 58%. However, business leaders surveyed said the recent tax reform continues to provide a boost. Inflation Corner: There’s no sign of a real budge on the inflation front, according to the Personal Consumption Expenditure (PCE) price data released Friday. The core number, which strips out volatile energy and food prices, delivered a big fat goose egg in August with no change recorded from the prior month. For the year, core PCE rose 2%, the same as a month earlier. While there’s nothing in the report that would seem to indicate any need for the Fed to veer from its path of gradual rate hikes, there’s arguably no alarm bell ringing either on prices. The next inflation gauge to look for is September wage growth in this coming Friday’s monthly payrolls report. TD Ameritrade® commentary for educational purposes only. Member SIPC.   