Norway is known for being one of the richest nations in the world, the discovery of large oil deposits in the North Sea more than 50 years ago being a major source of its wealth. When oil prices tumbled, the fallout sparked a new wave of entrepreneurialism, and today Norway is famous for being a great place to launch a new business. Its capital Oslo is currently the European startup hub to watch, while in terms of startup investment in Nordic countries, Norway leads the way. The Norwegian government has been proactive in supporting a new age of innovation and entrepreneurship, throwing its weight behind initiatives like Innovation Norway, and Investinor, an evergreen investment company backed by the Norwegian government. Jonas Rinde, CEO of Oslo-based vision technology company Huddly is one of many entrepreneurs who see Norway as a fantastic country for early stage startups. “What we’re experiencing in Norway is pretty spectacular, with a focus on diversification away from energy and towards technology startups,” he says “This can only be a good thing as the smartest and most innovative people in the country are creating companies that solve real-world problems.” Norway’s startup ecosystem is strengthening all the time, with the launch of numerous incubators and accelerators emerge, including the likes of Angel Challenge, TheFactory, Katapult Accelerator, StartupLab, Siva, Kjeller Innovasjon and Venture Factory. Leading groups such as Startup Norway, founded and led by passionate entrepreneurs, give the rapidly developing ecosystem a real sense of community and cohesion. Norway has produced some exciting companies, including world-leading game-based edtech brand Kahoot. Founded in 2011 by Johan Brand, Alf Inge Wang, Morten Versvik, and Jamie Brooker, Kahoot has raised a total of $43.5 million in funding over four rounds, the most recent a Series B round in March this year. No Isolation develops communications tools to help people living in vulnerable situations and was founded in 2015 by Matias Doyle, Karen Dolva and Marius Aabel. Its first tool AV1 is an avatar robot designed to tackle loneliness in children suffering from long-term illnesses. Equipped with a camera, microphone, speaker and motors, it can be taken into the classroom or outdoors, enabling youngsters to be part of everyday life. To date the company has raised $5.3 million in funding and last year scooped the Best Social Impact Startup and Startup of the Year awards at the Nordic Startup Awards. Fuse is a UX platform that creates apps aimed at streamlining the development process for designers and developers, and potentially halving the development time of complex applications. Founded in 2011 by Morten Fornes and Anders Lassen, the startup raised $12 million in a Series A round in 2017, led by Northzone and Alliance Venture, bringing the total raised to $18.7 million. Nabobil is a peer-to-peer car sharing platform through which users can rent each other’s under-utilized vehicles. They can be rented by the hour, day or month, with insurance included, supplied via a partnered provider. Based in Oslo the business was founded in 2015 by Jacob Tveraabak and Karl Munthe-Kaas and to date has secured funding of $1.8 million over three rounds. For many Norwegian startups, securing investment funding is key to next stage growth and ultimately expansion into overseas markets. According to one of Norway's top entrepreneurs Henrik Müller-Hansen, founder of global print solution Gelato, the country’s fast moving tech environment, transparent laws and regulations, and being centrally located between North America and Asia, makes Norway the perfect setting for startups with global aspirations. “Doing business on a global scale is part of our culture,” he says. “Norway has a rich tradition of trading with nations all over the world. Its global outlook and effective trade agreements have enabled it to become one of the world´s wealthiest nations.” Inevitably, as young business sectors mature they undergo a disruptive change with global players entering the market, which has been the case for Norway’s media industry. This is forcing the entire industry to adapt to stay relevant, and startups to innovate, says Kjetil Horneland, CEO of Sixty, a media company that he co-founded in Bergen, Norway’s second city, over a decade ago. The Media City Bergen Cluster in Norway is renowned as a major international center for media and technology innovation, fostering companies such as Vizrt. In the last year alone industry disruption has prompted over 80% of the companies in the Cluster, including Sixty, to launch new innovations. “It has enabled us to use all our experience as a catapult to launch and grow internationally," says Horneland. "We are now delivering our technology innovations to sports leagues, broadcasters and TV operators worldwide.” With a population of just five million, and a lot of its engineering and technology talent tied up in the energy industries, a shortage of skills resources could potentially have been a barrier to growth for Norway's startups. Instead they have simply looked elsewhere, as Müller-Hansen explains. “For most startups, attracting the best talent can be a real challenge,” he says. “Thanks to Norway's solid macro-economic conditions and unique standard of living, we find it easy. Being in Oslo helps to attract the best people to join the team, given that it is one of the happiest places on the planet.”