Alternative funds can be imposing to some investors. These funds might employ complex investment strategies and sometimes the financial instruments they hold can be tough to decipher. That’s especially true of alternative funds that hold derivatives, a financial instrument that derives its value from a reference asset that can take physical (i.e., cattle, crude oil, etc.) or financial (i.e., bonds, baskets of stocks, etc.) form. Moreover, some investors might be leery of alternatives funds that invest heavily in derivatives because a few of these funds have blown up in the past. For instance, in February 2018 LJM Preservation and Growth Fund, an open-end fund that invested in options contracts, shut down after incurring severe losses. That wiped out around 80% of the fund’s assets in just a matter of days Yet, daunting as some of these challenges might seem, it’s probably a mistake to blanket rule out alternatives funds that rely on derivatives to invest. Here’s my perspective on how-to evaluate funds like these that consider two key dimensions—how extensively a strategy is utilizing derivatives and how much borrowing that usage entails. How Much Derivatives Usage To start, consider how extensively an alts strategy uses derivatives. Does it just dip a toe in derivatives or is it chock full of them? Some strategies, like credit long/short—where a manager might be opportunistically betting on and against particular bonds and hedging out particular risks—might depend on derivatives to execute the strategy. The same holds for managed-futures funds, which systematically invest in futures contracts hopes of exploiting different trends that have formed across or within asset classes. On the flipside, a long/short equity strategy, which buys stocks in hopes they’ll rise while “short-selling” those it thinks will fall (or to hedge), might have only trace exposure to derivatives. Stark as that contrast is, it doesn’t necessarily mean the former is a lot riskier than the latter. Rather, what matters is the type and magnitude of exposures that those derivatives confer to the assets concerned. For example, suppose there’s an alternatives strategy that invests a large portion of its assets in derivatives as part of a hedging strategy. In that scenario, it’s possible that the fund has offset its broader market risks by hedging one part of the portfolio against another, making it less vulnerable to gyrations. Then consider another fund that invests 80% of its assets in individual stocks but uses the other 20% to place a leveraged bet on the direction of the broader stock market. In this example scenario, the derivatives-laden strategy presents less market risk than the derivatives-light strategy. How Much Leverage It’s also important to consider how the strategy is obtaining the derivatives exposure in question and how much leverage, i.e., borrowing, that entails. For instance, is the strategy reliant on credit from an outside source like a prime broker and, if so, does that present a danger in the event that the lender calls in those borrowings? How much borrowing is being done and on what terms? Is the fund investing in the equity or mezzanine piece of a structured credit product? Or is the fund “margining” whereby it invests in certain derivative instruments, like futures and options, by posting some portion of the dollar exposure the derivative delivers, but not the full amount? Margined transactions can have certain benefits. For one, it tends to tie up less cash, making it a pretty efficient way to gain exposure or hedge it away. In addition, margining comes with some built-in risk-management features. For instance, the more volatile the asset a derivative references, the higher the margin requirement tends to be. While this may be cold comfort in the event an investment goes south and the fund faces a margin call, it removes some of the uncertainty associated with a more-traditional lending and credit arrangement (which can be more subject to a lender’s judgments about borrowing terms). For mutual fund investors, it’s important to know how much margin a strategy uses to trade futures and options. Margin—and risk—can be high for managed futures, options-based strategies and some alternative fixed income strategies like non-traditional bonds and long/short credit. Industry regulators set some boundaries to protect mutual-fund investors, but they are not fool-proof. This is where I believe it pays to ask good questions, especially around the inner workings of leverage. How-tos To that end, here are some of my tips for how investors can get a better handle on how an alternative strategy might be putting derivatives to work in a portfolio, and what sort of risk that usage might court: · Check the Holdings: Alternatives mutual funds, like all funds, must file periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This includes quarterly, semi-annual, and annual reports in which the fund discloses its holdings, including derivative instruments. While there’s not a standard convention for presenting derivatives holdings, they’re usually identifiable by terms like “contracts”, “futures”, or “options” and the term “notional value” is also usually a tip-off. Note that contracts can confer different types of exposure depending on whether the fund is a buyer (i.e., long position in futures contract; buyer of call option, which is an option to buy at a specified price in the future) or seller (i.e., short position in futures contract; buyer of put option, which is an option to sell at a specified price in the future). · Size the Exposure: The number of futures contracts shown does not convey much information about the risk the fund might be courting. Rather, it’s the notional value that matters. Given that, it’s a good practice to sum-up the notional value of the contracts, once for long positions and once for short positions. By subtracting the latter from the former, one can derive an estimate of the fund’s net notional derivatives exposure. That net exposure can then be compared to the fund’s net asset value. If it’s large compared to the fund’s net assets, this could mean the fund may be placing what amounts to a large directional bet financed with leverage. · Find the Collateral: Suppose a fund is highly leveraged. Does that mean it’s a powder keg, ready to blow? Not necessarily. While the absolute degree of leverage can yield useful insights about the strategy’s riskiness under certain conditions, it’s important to note what collateral the fund is holding in reserve. For example, the notional value of a managed futures fund’s derivatives investments may be six times the size of its net asset value, a lot of leverage to be sure. But if 85% of the fund’s assets are sitting in cash (meaning that the fund only uses an average 15% margin), then it indicates that the fund is taking roughly equity-like risk. If the fund used substantially more than 15% of its assets as margin leaving the portfolio poorly collateralized, then this could mean the fund is courting the risk of substantial leverage and permanent capital loss. · Identify the Reference Assets: Recall that a derivative instrument derives its value from a reference asset of some kind. Given that the volatility of reference assets can vary significantly—think short-term bonds versus emerging-markets stocks—this can have an impact on the amount of leverage that’s advisable in certain circumstances. Large notional positions in short term fixed income futures, like Eurodollar futures contracts, would not necessarily be alarming given the low volatility of the reference assets concerned. A leveraged stake in a physical commodity futures (e.g. natural gas) isn’t necessarily a red-flag but given that market’s historical volatility, one would reasonably expect smaller gross leverage in that market when compared with the Eurodollar position. · Stress-test: While the above steps should suffice in some situations, they won’t always work. For instance, the math for options contracts is trickier given interplay of factors like the term of the option contracts and strike price. Given that it can be tough for the average investor to unpack these different moving parts, it can be worthwhile to instead “stress-test” the strategy (preferably using daily returns). For instance, compare how the fund performed in some of the market’s most-volatile conditions, or how it fared in up-markets vs. down-markets. Does the fund steadily chug along no matter the market’s direction, or does it bounce around dramatically under certain conditions? It should be noted that some funds may earn option premium by selling insurance against rare market events like a big sell-off in the equity markets. While selling naked options may look like a low-risk strategy generating stable and attractive track records for a certain amount of time, it can also lead to ruinous outcomes if the short options portfolio has too much leverage (borrowing in the form of margining). This might be observable in the gross notional value of the options sold in annual or semi-annual reports. Options are complex instruments and a fund’s market exposure can change drastically as the underlying reference asset (e.g. an equity index) moves rapidly to the downside or the upside. In addition, an unexpectedly large increase in the market volatility (e.g. indicated by the VIX index) can inflict serious damage in these portfolios. Even though the gross notional value of the options sold may not provide a definitive answer, it is a good starting point for further analysis. · Place in (Portfolio) Context: While it’s not always easy, it also can help to assess a derivatives position in a broader portfolio context. For example, you could consider credit default swaps on credit indices (CDX), a type of derivative that allows the investor to take long or short positions in corporate bonds without owning the bonds themselves. Think of it as a form of insurance--when an investor takes a long position in CDX spread, they purchase a desired level of protection against default (or, in the case of a short position, they sell this protection to a counterparty that is seeking it). While CDX and other credit derivatives can be mis-used, something we saw writ large during the global financial crisis, they’re sometimes used as part of a risk reduction strategy. For instance, perhaps a manager has some concerns about the stability of the credit market but doesn’t wish to reduce her corporate bond stake for various reasons. That manager might enter a CDX position to hedge part of the risk she’s courting (e.g. buying protection/insurance). The point is that while the CDX position in isolation might look risky, it should be viewed in concert with the portfolio’s other holdings, where its broader purpose can be more clearly seen. As such, investors are well-advised to view derivatives not just in isolation, but against the broader backdrop of the fund’s entire portfolio. Bringing it All Together Alternative strategies can be complex to begin with, but when they employ derivative instruments they can seem downright impenetrable. Nevertheless, many alternative funds use derivatives responsibly, in a way that advances the strategy’s goals. The key for investors is to go through some basic steps that can help them identify and quantify a portfolio’s derivatives stake and the role those instruments play in the strategy and the risks they court. With that knowledge, they can invest just as confidently in alternative strategies that employ derivatives, should the circumstances warrant it. 