Bahrain’s richer Gulf neighbors have come to the rescue of its beleaguered economy once more, by pledging $10 billion to the island kingdom, but will it be enough? The aid package was signed by the governments of Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the UAE on October 4 in the Bahraini capital Manama. The money will support a new fiscal balance program announced on the same day and is designed to eliminate the country’s sizeable budget deficit by 2022. Bahrain has tried but failed to put its finances on a more solid foundation for several years. The government says it has reduced spending by BD854 million ($2.2 billion) a year since 2015, but despite that it is still running a large deficit (estimated at 14% of GDP last year) and government debt has reached 89% of GDP. Alongside the new support package, the government has pledged to cut spending by a further BD800m a year, equivalent to 7% of total government spending last year. The new austerity program is focused on a number of areas, including an early retirement scheme for government employees, balancing the revenues and expenditure of the Electricity and Water Authority, increasing non-oil revenues, and “streamlining” of cash subsidies – the last of these is presumably a euphemism for cutting the amount handed out. How quickly any of this happens is unclear, but finance minister Sheikh Ahmed bin Mohamed Al Khalifa said spending cuts would start “in the short term” and deputy prime minister Sheikh Khaled bin Abdulla Al Khalifa promised a “swift and achievable consolidation program.” It is also uncertain how and when the $10 billion aid package will be distributed or what it will be used for. But the greatest unknown is how effective the money will ultimately prove to be. A previous $10 billion aid program for Bahrain, agreed in 2011 at a time of heightened political instability stemming from the Arab Spring, failed to turn the economy around. That money was transferred over the course of several years, often to assist with infrastructure projects such as housing. But Bahrain doesn’t just need help with its current and capital spending; it also needs to address some deep-seated structural issues within the economy. The government relies on the oil sector for around two-thirds of its revenues and the relatively low oil prices of recent years have weakened its financial position – reserves are now only enough to cover 1.5 months’ of imports, according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF). A large oil find announced in April will take many years to come on-stream. In the meantime, Bahrain has struggled to develop other industries which could provide the jobs and economic growth it needs and the authorities have also failed to properly address grievances within the majority Shia population which has led to ongoing political instability since 2011. Any plan to raise government revenues by introducing new taxes while at the same time cutting back on expenditure will have to be done with great care if it is not to provoke further protests. In the short-term, however, news of the aid package should help to shore up confidence in the Bahraini economy. The country shelved a bond offering in March this year, apparently because investors were demanding too high a rate of return and observers have been urging the government to put its house in order ever since. In May, the IMF warned that “a credibly large policy package… is urgently needed.” Saudi Arabia and the UAE are keen to avoid any challenge to the legitimacy of Bahrain’s rulers and together with Kuwait they promised to step in with assistance in June. That provided a much needed, if short-term, fillip to Bahrain’s economy. However, negotiations on the details of the aid package dragged on through the summer, seemingly because Riyadh and Abu Dhabi wanted assurances on how their money would be used. It looks as if these two countries are planning to keep a close eye on Manama’s performance. Alongside the $10 billion aid package, Saudi Arabia and the UAE also signed fiscal cooperation agreements with Bahrain. The details of these side agreements have not been revealed, but they appear to be a way of holding Bahrain to its commitments. It is also significant that Manama is setting up a number of new bodies to oversee the austerity and reform drive, including internal audit and central government procurement units in the Ministry of Finance and a new debt management office. Ultimately, this aid package is part of a longer-term plan by the richer GCC countries to support other poorer Arab monarchies. In 2011, they also pledged $10 billion to Oman and just prior to the announcement of the latest Bahrain support, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the UAE also pledged $2.5 billion to support the Jordanian economy. The package includes a $1 billion deposit in the Central Bank of Jordan, $600 million of further guarantees, annual support of $150 million over five years and a further $150 million to build schools. Meanwhile one rich Gulf country – Qatar – was frozen out of these initiatives, as it remains stuck in a bitter dispute with Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. It may just be a coincidence, but Qatar’s official news agency QNA released a short statement on October 4 pointing out that Qatari investments in the Jordanian stock exchange stood at $1.5 billion at the end of September, making it one of the largest investors in the market.