Natural gas is the world’s most vital source of new energy supply. Not just the cleanest fossil fuel, gas’ flexible is the enabling force behind the wind and solar buildout. Gas backs them up when the wind stops blowing or the night or clouds block out the sun. One of the great energy questions in the coming years and even decades is how much natural gas will China be producing. That’s because companies and nations are basing their export businesses on supplying huge amounts of gas to China. If China can somehow produce lots more gas, some market players could see sunken investments, and the LNG business might not boom as fast as expected. Yet with now favored gas accounting for just 7% of China's total energy supply, well below the nearly 30% market share it holds in the developed economies, China's potential gas use is simply massive. China is moving to more gas to clean hazy skies. The short-term goal is for gas to reach 10% of energy in the next few years and eventually at least 15% and beyond sometime after. So, the question: how much gas will China be producing? It’s noteworthy that China’s gas production has actually been significantly growing. In fact, output has been up 9% per year over the past decade, compared to 4% for the U.S. So now, China produces almost as much gas as Pennsylvania does, the second most vital U.S. supplier. Making this growth even more impressive, China's crude oil production has essentially been flat. China's national oil companies have been successful in leading gas development, in coordination with the international firms that have deep pockets and more technical expertise. Incentivizing new production, reforms have been key aligning domestic gas prices more closely to market-based rates. It’s a delicate dance. Too cheap gas hurts production; too expensive gas hurts demand."Costliest Gas in World Clouds China’s Campaign for Bluer Skies." Over the past 20 years, China's proven gas reserves have almost quintupled to 195 trillion cubic feet. By comparison, the U.S. has 310 Tcf. Compared to ~85% in the U.S., shale production in China now accounts for 7-10% of domestic output. Shale opportunities are pretty solid. With nearly 700 new wells will come onstream between 2018 and 2020, current shale gas production could double by then. We must continually remember, however, that all shale opportunities are different. No geology is ever the same, so simply duplicating the U.S. shale revolution in other countries like China is not nearly as easy as some think. China does have a global leading EIA-reported 1,115 Tcf of recoverable shale gas, and well costs have been rapidly declining, sliced in half to $7.8 million over the past eight years. Hampering shale, however, China’s price controls are exacerbated by water shortages, a pipeline dearth, and a strong-arm government that can make dealing with state-owned heavyweights rather unappealing. To enhance energy security, China is installing a portfolio of gas suppliers. As such, U.S. competition will remain very strong, another indication of how important federal policy support for our LNG sellers really is. U.S. LNG exports have bipartisan backing. Leadership on both sides know that we simply cannot afford to hand leading global gas exporter Russia the all-important Chinese market.