  Thanks to a Rocky Mountain shale party, Colorado is an increasingly important oil and gas producer. Over the past decade, Colorado's oil production has surged 365% to 380,000 b/d and natural gas production is up 30% to ~5 Bcf/d. The future shines bright: "Western Colorado's Mancos Shale formation holds an estimated 66.3 Tcf of natural gas, way up from the 1.6 Tcf estimate in its 2003 appraisal. puts the Mancos basin 2nd only to the Marcellus Shale in terms of the largest gas reserves in the U.S." But now unfortunately, Colorado has been thrown in the oil and gas news for all the wrong reasons. Initiative 97 would push all new oil and gas development to at least 2,500 feet from "occupied structures" such as homes, schools, business, and hospitals and "vulnerable areas" such as lakes, rivers, and parks. This is 2.5 to 5 times greater than current rules, and would cause a major problem for the fracking and horizontal drilling techniques used to develop shale rock formations. Some 50-60% of the state’s total land mass would suddenly be off-limits. Initiative 97 is a bad idea. Colorado's oil and gas business generates billions of dollars in revenues that families, governments, communities, and businesses depend on. The negative economic effects of Initiative 97 cannot be overstated. With some 6-8% of Colorado's jobs supported by oil and gas development, the repercussions would ripple across the entire state - and beyond. Namely, it would wipe out critically important taxes and fees for the state: "Anti-energy Initiative 97 threatens Colorado’s public schools."    Common Sense Policy Roundtable, "a non-profit free-enterprise think tank," has commissioned a study that concludes Initiative 97 could cost the state nearly 150,000 jobs and cut GDP by a staggering $218 billion. Absolute destruction for a state where 600,000 people already struggle in poverty. All Colorado has to do is look at Pennsylvania for an example of what could. A U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics study details the economic boon of shale development in The Keystone State. Yet the wider impacts of Initiative 97 are even worse. For example, as the U.S. increasingly turns to natural gas as the main source of power, an essential way to cut CO2 emissions, and the primary way to back up wind and solar, other states should also be supporting shale development in Colorado. Heavily-resourced Colorado exports over 70% of the gas that it produces, perfectly located to supply a region that has booming gas use. Supporters of Initiative 97 first need to get enough signatures to qualify it for November’s state ballot. I implore Coloradans to not fall victim to fringe groups that ultimately simply seek to ban fracking and oil and gas development. Some might not know that many Democratic leaders are pro-fracking, President Obama being one. As former Colorado Democratic Governor Bill Ritter notes, Colorado already has “the strongest set of state regulations of any state in the country where oil and gas extraction is concerned and where hydraulic fracturing is concerned." Current Democratic Governor John Hickenlooper has been a "strong supporter" of fracking as well. I've said it before and I'll say it again. The only thing that can derail the constant surge of U.S. energy dominance is overregulation and bad policy decisions. The anti-fracking movement epitomizes this problem. You should know that fracking, overwhelmingly so, is the main extraction technique we will be using to get new oil and gas supply in this country, two energy sources that are STILL projected by the U.S. Department of Energy to supply the bulk of our energy through at least 2050. This reality means that, without strong support for fracking and oil and gas development overall, we will increasingly be forced to turn to Russia, OPEC, and the other key global suppliers. Imports will be dangerously forced upon us, like they have been for high-cost New England, where anti-pipeline, anti-oil, and anti-gas extremism forced Boston to non-sensically import natural gas from Mr. Putin this past winter. It's an erosion of self-sufficiency that simply cannot be allowed to occur, especially as our partners in Europe, Asia, and Latin America in particular are asking us to supply them with more oil and gas to to advance their energy security. Initiative 97 is the ultimate triple whammy: bad for Colorado, bad for America, bad for U.S. energy buyers....but, you guessed it, perfect for Russia and OPEC. 