Small cap stocks have been on fire during this long stock market boom, with the S&P SmallCap 600 index advancing 12.6% so far this year versus 8% for the S&P 500. So as the oilfield services sector continues to improve given more activity due to higher oil prices, what are some good picks among small caps? In a report last month, RBC Capital Markets analyst Kurt Hallead outlined three stocks that he said were particularly timely. The first is Independence Contract Drilling, known as ICD. This past July, the land-based contract driller announced that it was picking up Avista Capital-backed Sidewinder Drilling for nearly $150 million in stock, doubling its size (the deal is expected to close in the fourth quarter). The combination will be the fifth-largest player for super-spec rigs in the U.S. with Ebitda upside as lower-priced legacy contracts get marked to market, the analyst said. The deal also will boost the company's market capitalization, increase its liquidity and open it up to more investors.    Hallead has an outperform rating on ICD with a price target of $6, versus a recent $4.94. The second is Cactus Inc., which the analyst said is a derivative play on land drilling in the U.S. where it's the leading provider of wellheads. As the rig count moves higher, Cactus will sell more wellheads, Hallead explains. The company also has the opportunity to increase its share of producers' wallets among its existing customer base in multiple basins and future potential upside with major oil companies. Analysts at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. also like Cactus, saying this week that it's a premier oilfield services stock "that warrants (more) space in energy investors' portfolios." They see equity upside to $44 to $47 per share, versus a recent $38.28. Hallead has an outperform rating on Cactus with a price target of $40. The company went public in February at $19 per share. The third is Frank's International, which helps producers put steel pipe in drilled wells, offshore and on land. Hallead said the company is successfully executing on its transformation program and strategic priorities to increase revenue and profitability. Through the first half of the year, for example, it boosted its sales per rig per month by 10% to 15%. The analyst has an outperform rating on the stock with a price target of $11, versus a recent $8.68. Piper Jaffray's Simmons & Co. International isn't as gung-ho on the stock, reaffirming its neutral rating last month after second-quarter results were announced with a price target of $6.75. 