 Since November 2014, we have lived in a world where oil supply exceeded demand. Oil prices dropped below $30 a barrel. Companies took major defensive moves by cutting capital budgets, downsizing staff and some even lowered or cut their dividend. Additionally, just about every company put massive efficiency programs in place with the goal of lowering the entire cost base of the energy industry. They succeeded in reducing the cost base, and the U.S. onshore industry has been able to remain cost competitive. However all of this has come at a price. The industry, in general, has not invested in enough new projects to ensure there will not be a future supply shortage. So what’s ahead? The picture is still murky, but here is what I see. Supply and demand are in balance today, but on a knife edge, and it wouldn’t take much of a supply shortfall to drive up oil prices. Brent topped $80 a barrel in early October, and West Texas Intermediate reached $75, and many analysts are pointing to a potential short-term risk for rising prices in this quarter and early into 2019. Why? The impact of U.S. sanctions against Iran are starting to take hold. Iran, OPEC’s third largest producer, produced 2.71 million barrels of oil per day in May 2018. That’s close to 3% of global oil production. There will be a significant portion of that oil coming off the market in the fourth quarter of this year. And it’s not clear what will replace that Iranian oil. Outside of Saudi Arabia, OPEC has little spare capacity. Why do you think President Donald Trump called the king of Saudi Arabia recently? He would probably like to see Saudi Arabia raise its oil production. This is possible, but it couldn’t happen immediately. Russia, meanwhile, has stepped up its oil production to just over 11 million barrels per day, but is that enough? Venezuela, once a very strong OPEC contributor, is producing only half of what it did in 2016 as the government of President Francisco Maduro battles hyperinflation and escalating financial chaos. Can Libya and Nigeria maintain their current levels of production? The United States, where the U.S. Energy Information Administration reports oil production for the week ending September 21, 2018, was 11.1 million barrels of oil per day, is often incorrectly called the new swing producer. Yet last week, the U.S. rig count for rigs targeting oil was down by three to 863 rigs, leading some to have at least a slight concern about whether the U.S. can maintain oil production at its current high level. Demand, on the other hand, has continued to be quite strong globally. Yet there may be problems there, too, amid concerns that escalating tensions between the U.S. and China over trade could hurt demand. Add all of this together, and it is leading many people to look to the fourth quarter of 2018 and the start of 2019 as a time where dwindling spare capacity and an undersupplied market could become a reality. That being the case oil prices will rise. Is $100 oil possible? Maybe. Costs remain low as a result of industry’s efforts since 2014, prices are going up and the U.S. dollar is strong. Those factors should combine to make 2018 a good year for oil and gas companies, although results are still not so great for the service companies. Why mention this? Given that companies are now making money again, they are collectively talking about a large number of final investment decisions for 2019. New projects that were not approved in the period from November 2014 until today may be looked upon more favorably. However, there is an issue there as well. Many people have left the oil and gas industry as a result of the recent downturn. The New York Times reported 163,000 U.S. jobs have been lost since the 2014 peak. Others have said up to 500,000 people have left the oil and gas industry globally. Will companies have sufficient capacity and quality in their human resources to deliver on these new projects? It’s not certain they will. If that isn’t enough uncertainty, there is a lot of discussion about an energy transition, which is already underway. However, the transition won’t follow a straight path. In fact, it will be a messy and tortuous trail as, without a major technological breakthrough, natural gas and oil combined will remain the dominant energy sources for the next 20+ years, with the natural gas share growing as it becomes the transition fuel to the future. That should be good news for the U.S., as today North America is the largest gas producer in the world, with Russia and the Middle East as second and third. North America is likely to be the place where future natural gas projects have the lowest break even costs globally; as a result, abundant and low cost natural gas will fuel a growing share of our global energy future. To close, we are in for a bumpy ride. Supply and demand are on a knife edge for sure, and we will see volatility in oil prices. Energy companies and producing nations need to replace the oil reserves that they have produced and maintain production. There will be challenges in meeting those objectives. Lastly, our future energy usage will likely have a large component of natural gas and much of that will be produced in the North America. Fasten your seatbelts. 