With stock market indices hitting new highs and oil prices solid as well, you would think shares of large-cap oil and gas explorers and producers would be sitting at high values. Not so, says Ryan Todd, who recently joined Piper Jaffray unit Simmons & Co. International as a senior research analyst with responsibility for covering 17 E&P companies. While there are takeaway constraints for some companies operating in West Texas' and New Mexico's Permian Basin, which has made investing in them risky, E&P companies in general look inexpensive on a historic basis given the constructive macro outlook for oil prices, he says in a Sept. 27 report. The analyst added that capital discipline and shareholder-friendly strategies are showing signs of staying power, with a visible path toward competitive metrics for generalist investors. Todd has two top stock picks at what he thinks is an opportunistic time for investors: Diamondback Energy and Marathon Oil.    Diamondback, based in Midland, Texas, is his favorite in the Permian. He says the company is a premier operator that leads its peers in terms of debt-adjusted cash flow growth (40% expected per year through 2020) but trades at a discounted multiple (5 times Ebitda expected for 2020 versus its peer average of 5.5). Todd says the stock should compete as a core investor holding given its market size. He also notes its upside via the synergies it will achieve with its $9.2 billion acquisition of Energen, the initial public offering of its midstream business (Rattler Midstream Partners), future divestitures and shareholder returns. The analyst has an overweight rating on Diamondback with a price target of $174, versus a recent $135.19. Meanwhile, Houston-based Marathon Oil is in the top quartile among its peers in terms of debt-adjusted cash flow but is in the bottom quartile in terms of multiple, Todd says. The analyst thinks the company is executing better than the market believes while acquisition risk is overdone. He says the de-risking and re-rating of its holdings in the Rockies' Bakken Shale and small bolt-on acquisitions should add "inventory comfort." In other actions, Todd upgraded Devon Energy from neutral to overweight with a $53 price target versus a recent $39.94. He expects less risk in the Permian given infrastructure, more asset sales and accelerated share buybacks. However, the analyst downgraded Hess' stock from overweight to neutral with an $83 price target (versus a recent $71.58), saying he saw "greater value elsewhere." Todd did the same with Apache, assigning a $50 price target for its stock (versus a recent $47.67). He noted that range-bound natural gas prices between $2.50 and $3 (for Henry Hub) and bottom-tier cash flow growth leave "limited running room" relative to its current valuation. 