Chesapeake Energy (NYSE:CHK), one of the largest natural gas producers in the US, has had a decent year so far. The recovery in commodity prices, coupled with the company’s divestment program, have enabled it to improve its performance over the last few quarters. The company plans to increase the proportion of oil in its production mix and deliver a sustained production growth in 2018 and beyond. In addition, the company will continue to focus on its cash flow neutrality target by reducing its long term debt obligations. We believe Chesapeake’s strategy to enhance its performance and value is likely to work in its favor and drive its value in the near term. We have a price estimate of $4.50 per share for Chesapeake Energy, which is in line with its current market price. View our interactive dashboard – Chesapeake Energy’s Price Estimate – and modify the key drivers to visualize the impact on its valuation. Ramping Up Oil Output To Deliver Sustained Growth Primarily a natural gas company, Chesapeake has benefited from the growing demand for gas globally. However, since the realized price for natural gas is significantly lower than that of crude oil, the company is now planning to increase the proportion of oil in its production mix. The company expects to deliver an adjusted oil production growth of 10% in 2019 and a sustained growth thereafter. With the strong results from the Powder River Basin, Chesapeake has increased its full-year oil production guidance by 500,000 barrels. With the use of optimized completions and customized facility design, the company has managed to increase its net oil production in the Powder River Basin by 90% year to date and anticipates further growth in the second half of the year. While the Turner formation continues to boost the output in the Powder River Basin, the company plans to move to other zones to further ramp up its production from the region in 2019. Consequently, the company expects to deploy 6 rigs in the region, which will enable it to increase its oil production by 100% in 2019. Apart from Powder River Basin, Chesapeake’s low-cost, high-margin assets in South Texas have also demonstrated improved capital efficiency, and is expected to generate roughly $475 million in free cash flow this year. In addition, the company plans to implement its first improved oil recovery project in 2019 and begin development in the Austin Chalk and Upper Eagle Ford. These two assets will provide additional growth opportunities for the company in the near term. Debt Reduction & Cash Neutrality Target What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams | Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Research Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own. 