Gasoline prices in Los Angeles are nearing the psychologically significant $4 per gallon mark. The media are reporting that the increase is due to rising oil prices, which they blame on OPEC's policies and President Trump's new sanctions on the Iranian oil industry. It is true that global oil prices are higher. The international oil benchmark, Brent, is now over $80 per barrel, but this is not the reason why gasoline prices in Los Angeles and around California are the highest in the nation. California consistently has some of the highest gasoline prices in the the United States, and a newly instituted 12 cent per gallon gasoline tax isn't helping. California also has some of the most stringent regulations for its gasoline in the nation. In practice, this means very few refineries are willing to produce gasoline for that state. For many years, California also required that summer-blend gasoline -- which is more expensive to produce and contains extra additives designed to reduce air pollution in the summer -- be used all year round. So, while gasoline prices typically fall in September across the United States as stations switch to the cheaper winter blend, Californians were left paying higher prices. In 2012, around the time gasoline prices were breaking records, Governor Jerry Brown changed the regulations to permit winter-blend gasoline to be sold in California in an attempt to bring down rising gasoline prices. Still, both the summer and winter blends of gasoline used in California are more expensive to produce than those used in any other state. California's stringent environmental regulations have isolated it from the larger gasoline market . This, in turn, has pushed up prices for consumers even more. For example, transportation costs for refineries and service stations are higher because California has no interstate pipelines. Any gasoline that is produced by refineries outside of California for use in California must be transported by truck or ship - both of which are more expensive. (Coincidentally, trucking and shipping gasoline also have larger carbon footprints). California's predicament is largely of its own making and its extra high gasoline prices should not be blamed on Iran, President Trump or even OPEC . Yes, gasoline prices are rising across the nation, but if California hits $4 per gallon, consumers have their own state taxes and regulations to blame. 