As seems to happen every time the oil price ticks up over some new round number threshhold, the energy media has seen a return of headlines predicting a return to $100/bbl crude prices this week as the price for Brent crude rose above $80. Since the price collapse of 2014, it has become something of a parlor game to be the first person to correctly predict when the return to $100 oil will come, and with the price for WTI also moving above $72/bbl early this week, this game saw a revival. You have to wonder how many more months must go by with the OPEC and non-OPEC nations that are party to the export limitation agreement steadily controlling the price of crude within a pretty stable range before everyone reaches the realization that the return of $100 oil is just a pipe dream that will not be fulfilled until that agreement somehow falls apart. More than two years have now passed since these countries first reached their initial agreement-in-principle and 20 months since the export limitation quotas went into effect. Throughout those two years the oil ministers and secretaries of those participating nations have been very transparent on their goals and compliance levels, allowing outside observers to gauge their success in real time. Anyone who has paid close attention to these aspects of the deal understands how successful it has truly been. When the limitations went into effect in January of 2017, the countries said their goals were to reduce the volatility of the price and stabilize it in a tight range around $65/bbl. By the end of that year, those goals had been achieved with remarkable success. Early this year, the representatives made clear their belief that the global economy could sustain somewhat higher crude prices without falling into recession and said they would be working to raise prices during the course of 2018. Again, they have managed this rise with great success and a very low degree of price volatility, despite the ongoing collapse of Venezuela's production levels, ongoing civil strife and frequent production interruptions from Libya and the re-implementation of U.S. sanctions on Iran. As we reach the end of the third quarter, 2018, the global supply/demand equation for crude oil is essentially in balance and perhaps even slightly short-supplied, keeping a steady upward pressure on the price for crude. At the same time, Saudi Arabia, Russia and some other participating countries retain significant levels of excess producing capacity in reserve, which could be tapped to fill production voids left on the global market by those other countries. The ongoing rapid rise in U.S. crude production also serves to provide a stabilizing factor. It's important to understand that, while all of these oil-producing nations have a clear economic interest in a robust price for their oil production, none of them has any incentive to allow prices to rise back to levels that would result in economic recession and permanent demand destruction. A return to a $100/bbl oil price for any sustained amount of time would probably result in both of those outcomes, and serve to speed the conversion to renewable power sources and electric vehicles that are already beginning to make inroads into the demand bases for fossil fuels. In their new report issued last week, the OPEC/non-OPEC nations projected robust global demand to remain in place for the next half-decade and a longer-term outlook that foresees global demand for oil continuing to grow through the year 2040. That outlook does not contemplate a return to $100 crude prices anytime in the foreseeable future, for good reason. For all the talk about how the ongoing oil production boom in the United States is infringing on the market positions of other oil-producing countries, the current reality is that, so long as their agreement holds together, the OPEC/non-OPEC nations are firmly in a position to control the price for crude for the foreseeable future. So long as that remains the case, headlines that loudly predict a return of $100 oil are little more than clickbait for the uninformed.