Try as they might, U.S. airlines just can’t shake – indeed, may NEVER shake – their reputations for being volatile, highly cyclical and even risky stocks. Just look at what has happened this week to the shares of Delta Airlines, generally regarded as the best-performer of the lot over the last four years. On Monday Delta shares opened at $58.08, then lost $1.47 across the day as oil rose $3.66 per barrel to $75.30, its highest closing price since mid-November 2014. Then, on Tuesday, Delta officials issued new third quarter profit guidance down ever-so-slightly from the company’s previous guidance. That caused its shares to tumble $2.42 a share, or 4%, before noon. Those shares finished the day off just 2.8% thanks to a modest last-minute rally. Then on Wednesday Delta’s share’s dropped another 1.2% to close at $54.32 Thus, since Friday’s closing bell, Delta’s shaves have given back 6.5% of their value. And this, it’s important to note, is what has happened over three trading days to a company that expects to report in a couple of weeks that its third quarter unit revenue – measured as revenue per available seat mile – grew by 4% to 4.5% over the third quarter of 2017. Furthermore, that new forecast is squarely in the middle of Delta’s previous guidance of third quarter unit revenue growth of 3.5% to 5%. And the carrier is going to report that quite healthy unit revenue growth number despite the impact of Hurricane Florence, which cost the airline about $30 million in foregone pre-tax profits and retarded its unit revenue growth by about 0.5 percentage points. For those keeping score at home, predicting a 4% to 4.5% increase in revenue despite the negative impact of a major hurricane should not induce a 6.5% drop in the company’s stock price, even when oil prices jump 5%. And it certainly shouldn’t happen to a category’s profit leader: maybe one of its laggard competitors, but not the group’s top performer. So why, then did it happen to Delta, and to a lesser degree, to American Airlines? Because perception is, as they say, reality. And airlines always have been perceived as volatile and cyclical and risky investment vehicles. They may, in fact, always continue to be so perceived despite all they’ve done in recent years to inoculate themselves against the enormous swings in profitability – and therefore share prices – that typified their existence for the first 80 years of the industry’s existence. Just over a year ago Doug Parker, CEO of American, the world’s biggest airline, boldly declared that “We'll never lose money again.” He was referring specifically to American but also indirectly to stable members of the larger industry like Delta, Southwest and United, and perhaps other, smaller carriers, too. It was a rash, maybe even foolish comment from a public relations perspective because American, Delta and United are only a few years removed from bankruptcy and decades of wild financial swings. Consolidation and the elimination of lots of debt and high cost items via the bankruptcy process have stabilized the industry’s finances more than most anyone thought possible. And, sure enough, the big U.S. airlines today are likely to remain profitable even if fuel prices double from their current price and reach the $150-a-barrel level that only a few years ago would have been a quick death sentence for them. But, as noted here previously, “never” is a long time, and guaranteeing that a company or an industry can overcome every possible challenge in the future, including ones so drastic that they’re pretty much unimaginable to us today, isn’t the wisest thing to say. Still, the big, stable U.S. airlines of today have a very long, long way to fall as a result of severe market conditions runaway oil prices before they’ll need to break out the red ink to print t heir financial reports. As a result, there’s a very good argument for investors treating the Big Four – American, Delta, United and mega-discounter Southwest - and perhaps several smaller competitors like stable companies involved in traditionally more stable industries. Maybe they’ll never be treated by investors as if they were uber-stable, even boring utilities. But thanks to the changes that have been made with the individual carriers’ balance sheets and the industry’s overall economic dynamics, most of the volatility has, indeed, been removed from the U.S. airline industry. In all but the most extreme future scenarios a big downturn in the market for them should produce merely smaller profits, not enormous losses. Investors, at least some of them, haven’t gotten that message yet. And they may never get it. Over the past three trading days Delta came down with the financial equivalent of a sniffle. Yet some not insignificant number of investors responded as if Delta’s running a high fever and is headed to the doctor’s office. Is it a knee-jerk reaction? Yes, in most cases, probably so. But markets aren’t as rational as we’d all like to think. Investors get jittery sometimes about data that shouldn’t cause the jitters, especially if such data always used to induce legitimate reasons for the jitters. Times change. Circumstances change. Markets change. But investors’ sentiments sometimes don’t change. And for whatever reason, it’s starting to look like the historical perception of airlines as volatile, cyclical, risky and even chaotic investment vehicles may never change, at least among some segment of the investing class. Of course, as with other companies’ shares that get beat down by knee jerk, history-driven responses to bad news, what has happened to Delta’s shares and, to lesser degrees, the shares of other airlines, is creating a buying opportunity for investors willing to break out of the old way of thinking about airlines’ stock values. Rising oil prices, and rising labor and other operating costs are going to be a continuing issue for U.S. carriers for the next year or longer. But, short of some sort of cataclysmic event, their days of swinging from modest profits to enormous losses do appear to be over. 