The possibility of a Democratic wave in the November elections must be sending a chill through the oil industry, even though oil prices have often been high during past Democratic administrations (mostly by coincidence). The fear is that a more liberal Congress will seek to undo some of the business-friendly policies of the Trump Administration and impose stricter regulations. This is not a paranoiac fantasy, as even paranoids have enemies and the oil industry certainly does. (Most outrageous I’ve heard: a conspiracy theorist who pointed out that the 9/11 terrorist attacks might not have been done by al Qaeda, as it benefited various people and groups including the oil industry.)[i] One major area of concern: hydraulic fracking operations. The shale revolution has been very good for America (and the world) and George Mitchell did more for the environment than the vast majority of climate change activists. And yet, many liberals and environmentalists maintain staunch opposition to fracking, usually not based on actual science but fears, rumors and the occasional vague correlational study.    Opposition to fracking has come to resemble some other arguably anti-science movements, such as those who denounce vaccines and GMOs, and the recent move by the Italian government to relax vaccine requirements for school children as a populist policy is certainly disconcerting. The idea that public fears, however unsubstantiated, should be accommodated seems to have more traction recently, and the fears are that left-wing populism in the next Congress could see this affect government policies. But rationality can prevail. After the Fukushima nuclear accident, Germany turned away from nuclear power and towards lignite, but in the U.S., early concerns were countered by the simple fact that most of the United States is not under threat of tsunamis. (The fact that far more people died from the Fukushima evacuation than from radiation exposure no doubt helped influence public opinion.) The same has been true of fracking, where two prominent Democratic governors, John Hickenlooper of Colorado and Jerry Brown of California, have spoken in favor of fracking, but with regulation. Hickenlooper in particular worked with the local industry and environmentalists to design regulation that would ease the burden on the former while assuaging the fears of the latter. (Not that everyone was satisfied of course.) Sometimes industry executives argue in favor of self-regulation, but this has two drawbacks. The first is that it assumes that everyone in the industry can be as careful and responsible as the best operators, which is logically impossible. (As in, half of all doctors graduated in the bottom half of their class.) And while even the average operator might be careful enough, there is a lot of room for some employees to be less than diligent. Nobody is perfect. And self-regulation has a potential down side for the industry: the public is likely to blame and punish the entire industry for the most egregious mistakes, as happened in the case of the Deepwater Horizon disaster. Obviously, any accident will create public outrage, but it would be worsened if the industry was shown to have blocked regulations that might have prevented it. Finally, to be realistic, there’s no such thing as self-regulation, it is only a matter of how much—and how good or bad—the regulation. Every company faces a surfeit of labor, safety and environmental regulations already, and the best approach from the industry’s standpoint is to accept that there will be regulation and providing input into the process can reduce the burden. Regulators, politicians, and environmental activists usually promote policies without regard for costs but can sometimes be persuaded to accept approaches that achieve their desired goals but avoid wasteful processes. [i] David Aaronovitch, Voodoo Histories, p. 267. 