 The Internet has been abuzz with reports that say the Saudis are “comfortable” with oil prices at $80, or roughly where they are now. This has led many to argue for “higher longer” rather than the earlier theme of “lower longer” that was so dominant a few months ago. Indeed, the bullish frenzy became so intense that Goldman Sachs’ report that oil was unlikely to hit $100 was treated as major news. When people try to parse comments from senior Saudi figures about the oil market, I’m reminded of the comedian who talked about seeing a celebrity rip open a ketchup pack in a restaurant with her teeth. The Saudi energy minister, president of Aramco and the crown prince are probably just at the top of the list of officials whose every move and comment are scrutinized by the press; a sneeze or cough at the wrong time can move oil prices, at least briefly. And Saudi decision-making is opaque, at least to a degree. This partly reflects the nature of the Saudi government and the strategic importance of the oil industry to the nation, but probably just as important, the uncertainties surrounding the market and thus their strategy. Sheikh Zaki Yamani, when he was energy minister, was asked about his long-term planning and he responded that he read the newspaper in the morning and then went to work. (Pre-internet days, obviously.) Before the price drop in 2014, it had been my hypothesis that if demand for Saudi oil was under pressure for an extended period (several years) and not due to temporary factors such as a recession, then they would seek to reduce oil prices to improve their market share. However, apparently the calculus was more forward looking, considering weak demand (due to high prices) and soaring shale oil production which would mean a major loss of market share in the future.    Now, ignoring the various theories about Saudi support for President Trump, geopolitical maneuvers against Iran and its allies, or desire to increase the perceived value of Saudi Aramco’s IPO, it probably remains the case that the primary concern is maintaining a sustainable price. And there’s the rub, as Hamlet would say. Efforts to estimate the sustainable price of oil have long proved seriously deficient, usually on the high side, and have often been biased by short-term developments, most especially political disruptions of supply. Which suggests that Saudi comfort with $80 might be misplaced. Much of the drop in inventories has been the result of the collapse of Venezuelan oil production, which accounts for the bulk of the market rebalancing, as the figure below shows. (This is based on estimates of Venezuelan production and assumes that half of the lost production shows up in OECD inventories; non-OECD inventories are not reported.) Venezuelan production remains on a downward spiral, but even if the government cannot halt the deterioration of the industry, there is an ultimate bottom (if only zero). And there is no doubt that the global supply picture, ignoring political interference, is quite robust. As the Figure below shows, non-OPEC supply this year and next is expected by the IEA to outpace demand growth. U.S. shale oil production is a big part of that, but more supply is coming from many other areas, from Brazil’s pre-salt to Kazakhstan’s Kashagan supergiant oil field. With Russia relaxing production constraints in response to the effect of new Iranian sanctions, the balance could be even worse. The oil price might very well hit $100 or more, especially if Iranian exports drop sharply (more than 1.5 mb/d) and global economic growth remains at current robust levels, but these conditions are unlikely to persist beyond the next year or so. And a new Venezuelan regime could see another round of apertura with more investment and restoration of much of the lost production. Combined with non-OPEC supply growing at or above incremental demand, and $80 would not look very sustainable. 