In the years ahead, to me, there will be no more interesting energy market in the world than the booming liquefied natural gas (LNG) trade. Starting exports in February 2016, the U.S. will be an increasingly larger player in LNG, an export bonanza that's likely second to the shale production revolution as the most transformative development in the history of the U.S. natural gas market. Natural gas is the go-to source of energy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and backup intermittent wind and solar. Now, I'm not saying any energy source is "bad" (all have their good attributes), but gas will be leaned on most heavily to meet new energy demand. This explains why the major oil companies are now promoting themselves as major gas companies. By the end of next year, the U.S. will have tripled its LNG export capacity to ~10 Bcf/d, or some 25% of the current global market. We are the emerging LNG supplier, as the U.S. demand markets of electricity, industry, and niche uses like transport will not satisfy our production surge. A domestic surplus of gas makes exports the natural next step, and buyers increasingly covet the shorter and more flexible contracts that we offer. We are inserting liquidity to a longtime overly rigid system that limited new entrants.    In fact, we've already shipped to 30 destinations, and some model that we could eventually export over 20 Bcf/d of LNG within 15 years. That's about as much gas as our Marcellus shale play - the largest gas field in the world - yields in total. The U.S. will have major competition of course, particularly from the gas exporting titans Russia, Qatar, and Australia but also from the giant trading houses and even European LNG buyers looking to resell the U.S. cargoes that they've already bought. All are being bolstered by the highest global LNG prices in four years - with even more bullish potential this winter. But it's Canada that is now emerging as major competition as well. Just last week, after years of delay, the $31 LNG Canada project from Shell and Asian partners was officially green-lighted to ship gas from British Columbia to Asia. The huge project is unique because it didn't first secure long-term off-take contracts, a practice that has become the norm. LNG Canada will begin construction as soon as possible and could be online within five years. The Trump administration should know that projects on Canada's west coast are much closer to Asia, where 75% of current LNG demand resides. For example, it takes just over a week for a tanker to sail from Vancouver to Tokyo, compared to nearly three weeks for the U.S. Gulf Coast. We must continually be pro-active in this burgeoning business to compensate for such things. The approval of LNG Canada shows how finally rising oil and gas prices indicate that "what's old is new again." While modular and nimble projects will remain increasingly popular, booming demand also signify that "after $80-billion blowouts, mega oil and gas projects are back." Companies, however, would be well advised to enter this next phase of growth with a far better sense of "what could go wrong." "Cost overruns near $50bn as Australia’s LNG boom falters." Despite a worsening trade war with China that now has a 10% tariff on U.S. LNG, our prospects are still great. As oil prices rise, for instance, competitors that sell gas linked to oil will be offering less attractive terms. Oil is now at the highest prices in four years, and even "$100 oil" has been trending up in "Google Trends." Due to a lack of investment in new supply capacity that came from the price collapse that started in 2014, an oil price spike could come sooner than many realize. Ultimately though, there's room for all gas exporting nations. A very large global LNG supply shortfall is expected to materialize within the next five years, after years of new projects not getting approved. In fact, LNG Canada was the first big greenfield project approved in five years, even though demand has been up 33%. 