Iceland’s aviation and tourism industries have boomed in recent years, investing to attract record numbers of visitors. The boom has led to unprecedented airport growth and supported the launch of low-cost, long-haul airline WOW air. But aviation is a cash-guzzling business, and Iceland’s airlines are beginning to show systemic strain which could spill over to the nation's airports. WOW air’s announcement that it is cutting back on U.S. routes, including to JFK, raises questions over whether it grew too fast too soon. WOW is pulling back service to the U.S. Midwest cities of St. Louis, Cincinnati and Cleveland. While the airline characterized demand in these cities as low, airports have disagreed. CAPA’s The Blue Swan Daily newsletter has also reported that WOW air will discontinue its daily service to New York JFK and to Dallas/Fort Worth effective October 26. With all of these routes, the airline has said it does not plan to resume seasonal service in 2019. WOW air is also cutting back capacity (link in Danish) on its new routes to New Delhi by 40% due to soft demand. It is not unusual for a low-cost airline to quickly drop an unprofitable route, but these moves must be taken in the context of everything else happening with WOW and Icelandair. Operating without fuel hedges, WOW air has been hit by a rise in oil prices. The airline’s recent bond sale helped raise additional capital of $69 million (60 million euro) which is intended to bridge the gap until the company issues shares on the stock exchange. Losses at Icelandair led the CEO to step down this August, but there doesn’t seem to be an easy turn-around in the airline’s future. WOW air based its entire business model on the bet that budget travelers would be happy to stop by Iceland when crossing the Atlantic if fares were attractive enough. But the transatlantic market is highly competitive with both low-cost rivals and full-service airlines offering direct flights at affordable prices. This writer approached WOW air’s CEO, Skúli Mogensen in September, at Aviation Festival, London, for comment on whether he found Icelandair’s financial troubles worrying, as a possible sign of trouble in the Icelandic market. He gave a curt reply that it was worrying for them (Icelandair), but that he was not worried. Perhaps he should have been. In September, Danish aviation news outlet Check-In.DK reported that WOW air owed $17.6 million in unpaid airport charges to Iceland’s airport management company Isavia, (Paywall, link in Danish), with nearly half of it classifiable as bad debt. WOW air has not paid any airport charges this year, and Isavia representatives would only say that they are working on solutions that work for customers. Isavia is not dependent on domestic airlines alone. International carriers are also delivering visitors to the land of fire and ice. Keflavik airport hosts 28 airlines flying to over 100 destinations in 30 countries. Isavia’s 2018 half year financials reflected a 12% increase in earnings over last year and a 15.6% increase in passenger numbers over the first half of 2017. There are plans underway for an airport expansion at Keflavik International Airport with the European Investment Bank (EIB) loaning $114 million (100 million Euro) to the project this February. Growth in Iceland has been dramatic and relatively recent. Visitor numbers through Keflavik Airport had grown moderately until the Eyjafjallajökull volcano eruption in 2010 that spurred on Iceland’s focus on tourism. Keflavik averaged 400,000 visitors per year up to 2010 when it reached 459,000. Though growth intensified from -1.1% in 2009/2010 to 17.8% in 2010/2011 that still only represented 540,000 visitors by the end of 2011. From then, passenger numbers have sky-rocketed reaching 2.2 million in 2017. But the rate of growth at Keflavik peaked at 40% in 2015/2016 and dropped to 24.2% in 2016/2018. Some of this is due to a transfer in capacity to Iceland’s other airports, with Reykjavík Airport benefiting most. But the cumulative rate of growth for all of Iceland’s ports (including Seyðisfjörður seaport) still declined from 38.9% in 2015-2016 to 24,1% in 2016-2017. These statistics from the Icelandic tourism board haven’t deterred Isavia from presenting a smooth and steady climb to 13.8 million visitors by 2040. The tourism board’s numbers only count travelers going through security checkpoints, and not transiting passengers on connecting flights. Even so, planning on a constant rise in connecting traffic is optimistic. The real questions are how much of Iceland’s tourism boom is sustainable over the long term, how attractive Iceland is as a connection point across the Atlantic, and whether the country’s airlines and airports have made overly aggressive plans for growth. Can Iceland serve the 13.8 million visitors a year that Isavia expects? A nation with a population of 337,000 would see itself hard-pressed to handle that number of guests unless the distribution of visitors by season were to shift dramatically—that’s the plan of the year-round campaign. Historically, around half of Iceland’s visitors have come during June through September. There has been a recent spreading of passenger numbers over to January-May. Even so, the June-September 2017 saw the highest concentration of travelers (44.7%). Iceland’s airlines have an incentive to help the nation’s tourism industry out, to spread out passenger numbers in support of the year-round tourism campaign, and to encourage more visitors to stop over, spend their money to benefit the local economy. They have invested in the promise of Iceland as a connector between Europe and North America. If they are in trouble, there is a reason to question that promise. There is plenty to love about Iceland as a destination, but international carriers traveling to and through Iceland have no interest in flying anyone there unless there is sufficient demand. They have no need to stop over and linger until the next volcanic eruption. The country needs its airlines to stay strong and deliver visitors, but without profits, the whole plan rests on thin ice.