India's burgeoning economy, which recently overtook Japan to become the world's third-biggest crude oil importing nation after China and the U.S., is feeling the pinch of relatively high oil prices. Oil market bulls may covet Delhi's appetite for the crude stuff but it is giving Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government a political headache. India gradually removed popular fuel subsidies and headline price controls that had blighted its finances for decades back in 2014, as Modi was propelled to power by a thumping electoral mandate. The oil price slump that followed in subsequent years, and resulted in sub-$30 crude oil prices at one point last year, ensured the move brought very little political baggage with it. But that was then, and much of 2018, especially the last three months, have seen Brent futures hit four-year highs in the region of $80 per barrel, causing a domino uptick in prices at Indian fuel forecourts. Worried about political damage, with an irate voting public having to pay more to motor their appetite for mobility, the Modi government cut taxes on diesel and gasoline in October and "asked" the country's dominant state-owned retail and downstream companies to cut the price of selected auto-fuels by INR1 (around 2 cents) per liter of fuel sold. Since these companies account for the bulk of retail fuel sales in the country, the Indian government effectively asked much of the market to lower its margin and make a political concession in all but name. At least that's how analysts view it. Keenly aware of the impact it would have on investor sentiment, at a time when India is courting foreign dollars for its nascent oil and gas upstream operations, calming soundbites from officials came thick and fast this week. Both the country's Finance Minister Arun Jaitley and Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan took to the airwaves to say the move was about helping consumers, and not market intervention. Both added that the government's call should not be seen as a return to a regulated regime. The government has since added it would not interfere with market-determined prices of gasoline and diesel, according to separate reports on Reuters and Indian broadcaster NDTV. Yet, one major investor already appears to be concerned – oil major BP (LON:BP). Since 2011, pre-dating Modi's rise to power, BP has been pouring billions into the Indian market. It has a tie-up with Reliance Industries to explore natural gas fields in India, with a production target of 1 billion cubic feet (bcf) per day by 2022. In 2011, BP paid $7.2 billion for its 30% stake in the venture and with the promise of an additional $1.8 billion for future performance payments. In 2017, Reliance and BP announced an investment of $6 billion to develop three fields in the east coast of India which would add around 30-35 million standard cubic metres per day (mscmd) of gas between 2020 and 2022. And in a direct connection to India's retail fuels market, BP also has a tie-up with Reliance – owner of Jamnagar Refinery, the world's largest with a 1.24 million barrel per day capacity - to enter the country's state-dominated retail fuel sales and natural gas marketing sphere. Expressing veiled concern at the recently concluded IHS CERA India Energy Forum, Bob Dudley, Group Chief Executive of BP, said: "I think that price controls are a kind of thing that will not be good for the sector in the longer term." He later added that price controls would damage "brand India", but followed it up with a caveat: "I have not heard any suggestions that India will go back to price controls. There have been some reductions on parts of the taxes." While expressing concern, Dudley also appeared to be at peace with his company's forays in the subcontinent, adding: "We plan for the long term and we're here in India for the long term." One thing he didn't comment on was when BP would open its first fuel retail outlet in India via its partnership with Reliance; a wise decision under the circumstances. 