It looks like the United States and Saudi Arabia are heading for a major spat over the disappearance of Jamal Khashoggi, a Washington Post columnist and Saudi citizen who had been living in the United States. As always with questions of Saudi Arabia, this leads to concern about the oil market. If relations worsen between the two countries, what will happen to the global supply and price of oil? The answer is that the global oil supply would be fine. However, there could likely be a speculative spike in the price of oil, possibly reaching prices far higher any numbers predicted by analysts and banks this year. Saudi Arabia has shown that it fights criticism forcefully, even criticism from other sovereign nations. Germany and Saudi Arabia are just now remaking relations after a year-old spat that resulted from a veiled German comment about the Yemen war. And Saudi Arabia essentially severed all ties with Canada this summer after the Canadian foreign minister criticized the arrest of two Saudi activists with ties to Canada. Saudi Arabia has historically taken a strong stand against criticism from other countries, even including the U.S. It is possible that Saudi Arabia will try to overproduce oil to drop the price and appease President Trump (who has been asking for just this) in an attempt to overcome a dispute over Khashoggi. This would be a deviation of traditional Saudi government behavior, but it seems possible because the Saudi government is so reliant on the United States and American businesses for arms sales, diplomatic support, the American consultants who facilitate large parts of Saudi government programs, employment and education. However, if Saudi Arabia overproduced to try to ingratiate itself with the U.S., it would antagonize its OPEC partners and Russia and run the risk of permanently damaging the cartel through which it so strongly influences the oil market. Assuming Saudi Arabia would want to take a firm stand against American criticism (or even American sanctions), what can it do to hurt the U.S.? Saudi Arabia is limited in its ability to respond to U.S. criticism. Saudi Arabia could refuse to export oil to the U.S., but the U.S. would survive with its own production (around 10 million barrels per day) and imports from the rest of the largely-fluid global market. However, Saudi Arabia would actually suffer. Saudi Arabia’s national oil company, Saudi Aramco, owns the largest American refinery which imports large amounts of Saudi oil. Aramco also owns many gas stations in the U.S. If Saudi Arabia prohibited exports to the U.S., Aramco would suffer first and most. To actively raise the global price of oil on the international benchmark, Brent, Saudi Arabia would need to decrease its exports globally, since the market is global. Saudi Arabia is very unlikely to do this. It must continue selling to its customers in Asia, because 1) Aramco owns shares in many of those refineries that are customers, so decreasing the supply would again hurt Aramco; and 2) Aramco and Saudi Arabia have contracts with many Asian countries and the refineries to provide oil, so a disruption would be a major business fault. Moreover, and this is the big one, Saudi Arabia’s domestic stock exchange, Tadawul, is now heavily correlated with the price of Brent. Saudi Arabia does not want the price of oil to spike, because that could disrupt Tadawul so that no one can afford to trade shares, thus damaging the Saudi economy. Historically, Saudi Arabia has increased and decreased production and exports to maximize profits but not to settle geopolitical scores. Of course, the leadership in Saudi Arabia is new and does not always follow the same guidelines. Nevertheless, as with any global incident impacting oil, the real action is at the trading terminal . If this spat gets bad, look for nervous traders to buy. Speculation, more than anything else, could make the price of oil rise and rise and rise. 