As the Western world delves into the disappearance of exiled Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, the specter of geopolitical tension once again dominates conversation in the oil pits. Futures traders have to think several steps ahead, and if--and if it's a big if--there were a coordinated sanctions regime by Western nations against Saudi (I believe it is extremely unlikely China would follow such a move,) some traders I talk to believe it would lead to a supply shock the likes of which has not been seen since 1973. That's the worst case scenario, obviously, but it is interesting to hear pundits put out near-apocalyptic levels for oil prices. This morning, Al-Arabiya channel’s general manager Turki Al Dakhil wrote an op-ed predicting that if sanctions are imposed on Saudi “no one should rule out the (oil) price jumping to $100, or $200, or even double that figure.” The last figure equates, of course, to $400 per barrel. That Al Dakhil wrote this in Al-Arabiya, a publication owned by the Saudi state, is of course most relevant. Threats are best made by focusing on the most dire, even if least likely, outcome, and $400 per barrel oil would indeed create a dire situation for the global economy. Saudi is using its leverage and this is not a new phenomenon. I laughed when I read this Bloomberg piece that opined that Saudi made a "veiled threat to use the kingdom’s oil wealth as a political weapon -- something unheard of since the 1973 Arab embargo.” Come on. Geopolitics is driven by leverage and Saudi Arabia's leverage derives from its huge supply of oil and natural gas. Saudi's existence as a global power is based entirely on its oil reserves and Saudi's position as a key player in the neverending Sunni-Shi’ite regional tensions in the Middle East is financed by those same oil reserves. So, we'll see how tightly the Saudis decide to squeeze. Cutting down on supply, even briefly, would be a clear message to the Trump Administration: If you want gas prices to hit $4.50 a gallon, feel free to sanction us. I am still still quite bullish on the outlook for oil pricing, but as an active manager I have to find economically efficient ways to play higher oil prices. The key is in the understanding of the old axiom that oil prices rest on the value of the incremental barrel. If Saudi pulls incremental barrels from the market that supply will have to come from somewhere else. It is a widely held assumption in the oil industry that Saudi’s lifting costs are obscenely low, perhaps under $10 per barrel. So, incremental barrels produced in other countries are going to cost more than that, and the price will rise. In that scenario, a producer with ability to quickly increase production at little incremental cost would benefit the most. That fits the profile of U.S.-based independent exploration and production companies exactly. I deal with managements at the E&Ps on a very regular basis, and there is now a sense of anticipation that inevitably leads to action. Baker Hughes' most recent rig count data showed 869 oil rigs in operation in the U.S., a slight weekly increase for the first time in four weeks More importantly, though, that rig count is still 40% below the level of December 2014, and there is not a single E&P C-level exec I talk to that is not considering adding rigs. Similarly, none of my contacts are complaining about availability of rigs, or water transfer crews or the like, and that indicates to me there is still some slack in the system. The Energy Information Administration reported U.S production at 11.2 million barrels per day (mmbpd) last week, and I believe there is still upside to that figure. Some observers--and more than a few traders--thought that crossing 10 mmbpd was threshold that would kill the U.S. oil industry, but overproduction is in the eye of the beholder. How should an equity investor play that? As an energy investor I look for companies that can increase production in a time of rising prices. The ability of the global oil industry to handle extra production form North America has been proven, and so supply-side worries should be refocused into supply-side opportunities. I am out of space today, but in tomorrow's column I will highlight some of the smaller E&Ps that are dramatically increasing production in this increasingly attractive oil pricing environment.