This morning, oil prices were up for a while based on the perceived threat by Saudi Arabia to employ its oil weapon against countries trying to punish it for alleging killing Saudi dissident Jamal Kashoggi. Given the current tight oil market and already-elevated prices, the prospect naturally causes a certain amount of dread in the financial markets—except for oil price bulls. (See also Ellen Wald's earlier piece.) Some history is valuable, especially of the “oil weapon.” The oil weapon has been used repeatedly, although only once by Saudi Arabia. The most important incidence was the U.S.-British oil embargo against Japan in 1941, after earlier threats by the League of Nations against Italy faltered. In the initial postwar years, the British successfully carried out a consumer-side embargo against Mossadegh’s Iranian government for its nationalization of the British Petroleum concession. In 1970, Libya’s revolutionary government took advantage of the tight oil market and the vulnerable small companies producing much of its oil to pressure them to accept higher tax rates—which began the rise of oil exporters’ pricing power. (M. A. Adelman referred to this episode as The Genie Out of the Bottle in his book of the same name.) In 1967, during the Arab-Israeli War an oil embargo was announced by some Arab countries, but ended quickly as other producers stepped in to replace them. The second Arab Oil Embargo in 1973/74, during a successive Arab-Israeli War, came during a much tighter market and, combined with ongoing negotiations between producer governments and oil operating companies over tax rates, led to much higher prices. But it became obvious, especially after the 1979 Iranian Oil Crisis sent prices soaring even higher, that producers had over-reached in attempting to lock in higher prices. (Of course, nearly the entire expert community, with exceptions like Adelman and Peter Odell of Erasmus University, solidly believed that prices would only continue to rise.) As the figure below shows, OPEC and Saudi production plummeted for five years, even as pundits repeatedly insisted that the market was on the verge of turning around. After 1974, the Saudis repeatedly vowed not to wield the oil weapon, after watching their supply become the “barrel of last resort.” In other words, consumers would only buy from them after every other source had been exploited. This helped explain why Saudi production dropped faster than that of other exporters, although their acceptance of the role of swing producer was equally important. But the widespread efforts by consumers to seek any replacement for Middle Eastern oil threatened the prospect of what is now called peak oil demand, as tens of billions were spent on nuclear power, liquefied natural gas plants, and even coal liquefaction. A few other threats have been made, usually by the more radical exporting governments of Iraq (under Hussein), Libya and Venezuela, almost none of which was ever implemented. (In fact, the only successful embargo post-1973 was by consumers against Iraq, but even that was less than perfect.) So, the possibility of a new Saudi threat to use oil in retaliation appears to be a shocking departure from past behavior. 