Canada will "soon" be the United States' No. 1 trade partner again. This will happen for two primary reasons and it will likely stay there for a third. The long-time U.S. No. 1 trade partner until 2015, Canada was supplanted by China in 2016. The first reason is the most central: The price of oil. Canada slipped to No. 2 not because of, as many suspected, an avalanche of inexpensive Chinese imports washing ashore, but because the price of oil fell dramatically.The year China became the top U.S. trade partner, its total trade with the United States increased 1.29%. That year, Canada's oil imports into the United States dropped 43.51% in value. Canada, unbeknownst to many, is the primary supplier of imported U.S.oil, accounting for a record 37.7% in 2017. In fact, it is the only nation to have ever accounted for more than 20% of U.S. oil imports. If the price of oil continues to rise, that will increase the value of the trade flowing across the northern U.S. border since it is Canada's top-ranked export to the United States. Already, the difference between the China and Canada is a pretty slender slice of bread. Through August of this year, the most recent U.S. Census data available, China's trade with the United States totaled $426.71 billion, up 6.86%, while Canada's U.S. trade totaled $415.51 billion, up 8.17%. Statistically, with rounding, both are accounting for 15% of U.S. trade this year. The second reason is probably the most obvious: The trade war between the United States and China. As oil prices rise ,or even if they stabilize in the final months of the year, expect the impact of the $250 billion in U.S. tariffs and the roughly $50 billion in Chinese tariffs to start adding real "sand to the gears" of the U.S.-China trade relationship. Already, as I have noted in two previous columns, one on soybean exports to China and one on oil exports there, the impact is real. In the month of August, China imported virtually no U.S. soybeans, its market share falling from a majority to less than 2% and quite literally no oil, from a record only two months earlier. U.S. imports from China are almost certainly bound to suffer though that is yet to show up in the data. The third reason is the least obvious, and the least immediate, but perhaps the most potent: The construction of the new Gordie Howe Bridge between Detroit and Windsor in Canada. The current bridge, the privately owned Ambassador Bridge, is a four-lane bridge built early in the previous century. For decades, it has done yeoman's work, of course. But being privately owned, it tied the hands of governments, which had been trying for nearly two decades to push through a new bridge. Currently, almost a quarter of all U.S. trade with Canada occurs at the Ambassador Bridge. The new bridge, which will not be open until 2024 under current plans, will be six lanes and offer more rapid access to the highway systems, particularly on the Canadian side. Whether the family that owns the Ambassador Bridge decides to make improvements or not, having two bridges will radically improve the flow of both people and commerce between the two nations. Will Canada jump ahead of China this year? Hard to say. Depends primarily on the price of oil and, to a lesser extent, the still-brewing, still-escalating trade war between the United States and China. But if not this year, 2018 looks pretty much like a lock. Will Canada stay atop the leader board? I am guessing so, particularly if it can gain and then retain that top spot until the Gordie Howe Bridge opens. 