Is $100 a barrel (bbl) inevitable? Brent crude is now trading at $82/bbl, a four-year high, and most analysts believe it won’t stop there. The geopolitical and global financial climate is certainly hospitable to rising oil prices: Saudi Arabia's Jamal Khashoggi crisis, the specter of Iran sanctions, turmoil in heavy oil-producing states like Venezuela and Libya, and strong economic growth in China and India are driving a 1.5 million barrel per day (b/d) rise in global oil demand. There is a chance, however, that OPEC greed and global macroeconomic headwinds keep a lid on global prices. A tightening Market Renewed speculation of an oil price spike coincides with U.S. sanctions against Iran’s energy sector, set to take effect on November 4. Countries purchasing crude from Iran have less than one month to find alternative supplies, lest their central banks incur the wrath of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Iran’s oil exports peaked in April of this year at 2.8 million b/d – days before President Donald Trump pulled the United States from the Iran Deal. Iranian oil exports are now down to 1.72 million b/d in September and will continue to fall.      As the Iran drama unfolds, geopolitical and geoeconomic crises among other petro-states will contribute to the tightening market. In Venezuela, crude oil production in the country decreased from 2.3 million bpd to 1.6 million within two years. After 30 consecutive months of mismanagement causing production declines, there is no room for optimism in the country’s beleaguered energy sector, once largest in Latin America. Iraq and Libya, two other prominent OPEC members, face security crises imperiling their oil production. Basra, home to the bulk of Iraq’s oil infrastructure, saw deadly protests last month. The country is exporting almost 4 million b/d, but the loss of even one production facility could set Iraq back by 800,000 b/d. Libya, a failed state, has endured direct assaults on its oil infrastructure. Armed insurgent groups have attacked the National Oil Company headquarters, successfully blockaded ports, shut down airfields, and blown up pipelines. Output is now around 1 million b/d, but the Libyan government is optimistically targeting 2 million b/d of production by 2022. A Senior Western advisor to the Government of National Accord – Libya’s interim governmental body – had this to say about Libya’s production target: Global crude demand is also expected to increase, adding yet more upward pressure on oil prices. According to OPEC estimates, we should see a demand growth of 1.4 million b/d this year, bringing total demand to over 100 million b/d for the first time in history. China and India are driving this trend. Between January and August of this year, Chinese petroleum consumption rose by 5.8 percent compared to 2017. India is expected to overtake China as the world’s leader of global oil demand growth by 2024. Analysts think the Indian economy will need to add around 10 million b/d by 2040 to meet the needs of its economy. Price relief? Oil’s steady march to $100 can only be stymied by two things: a fall in demand and/or a rise in production. On the demand side, there is consensus that global oil consumption will increase through 2020, but the rate of this growth is actually slowing. OPEC and the IEA have revised next year’s oil demand growth to 1.41 million b/d, a decrease of 110,000 from earlier this year. A September OPEC report explains the reasoning behind this adjustment: Another downward force on prices? Rising production. Non-OPEC countries like the United States are one such source of output growth. U.S. shale is up to 7 million b/d of production, pushing domestic production near 11 million b/d. According to the IEA, non-OPEC supply was up 2.6 million b/d y-o-y, and is expected to grow by 1.8 million b/d in 2019. This should comfortably meet projected demand increases over the same period. And that’s to say nothing of OPEC additions OPEC (now OPEC-Plus) is home to the world’s largest reserves of spare capacity. Officially the group can produce an additional 2.7 million b/d if called upon, and closer to 3.2 million if other OPEC-Plus members like Kazakhstan and Brazil are included. This is more than enough to offset the loss of Iranian and Venezuelan exports if they decide to do so. Some may think that’s a big ‘if,’ but overall the interests of OPEC-Plus align with prices under $100/bbl. Why? Because when prices are too high, demand drops – oil producers lose market share to alternative technologies. Furthermore, most OPEC members (excluding Iran and Venezuela) are able to meet their fiscal budgets under $100/bbl. According to the IMF Saudi Arabia’s fiscal breakeven point is around $84/bbl while Russia’s is under $70/bbl. By pumping extra barrels at today’s strong prices these countries generate additional revenue. As a bonus, those who bring their spare capacity online crowd out competitors who are already pumping at full tilt. It is therefore in the best self-interest of cartel members, then, to increase production. There is little stopping Saudi Arabia from taking advantage of this dynamic given their significant spare capacity. Throw in fear of retaliation from President Trump, who threatened OPEC with NOPEC legislation last month over its ‘engineered high prices,’ and supply increases from OPEC-Plus become all but guaranteed. So, are geopolitical turmoil and supply crunches enough to send oil prices sky-high? Quite possible. Yet there is enough spare capacity and self-interest at play to keep supply in equilibrium with demand, at least for the next six months.  James C. Grant, Program Manager at International Market Analysis Ltd., contributed to this article   