Despite being involved in corruption scandals, Petroleo Brasileiro Petrobras (NYSE:PBR) has had a good year so far. The Brazilian integrated energy company’s stock has surged almost 30% since the beginning of the year, driven by improving commodity prices and sustained production growth. Further, the reduction in the company’s gross debt, and in turn, in its financial expense, has bolstered its bottom-line over the last couple of quarters. Thus, we believe that the success of the company’s debt reduction initiatives will enable it to achieve the targeted net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.5x by the end of 2018. Below, we discuss the factors that will drive the company’s revenue growth as well as valuation in the near term. We have a price estimate of $12 per share for the company, which is higher than its current market price. View our interactive dashboard – Petrobras’ Price Estimate and modify the key drivers to visualize their impact on its valuation. Rising Commodity Prices After witnessing the worst-ever downturn, the commodity markets seem to have recovered strongly in the last few quarters. Backed by the production cuts imposed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies since the beginning of 2017, the oil and gas prices have rebounded, and are now slowing reaching the pre-2014 levels. Brent crude oil prices, a global benchmark for oil prices, is currently trading at $84 per barrel, almost 26% higher compared to the start of the year. WTI oil prices have also shown solid improvement and have increased to $74 per barrel at present, a rise of 23% year-to-date. In tandem, natural gas prices have also improved over the last few months. Given the growing global demand for gas, the NYMEX gas is currently trading at $3.14 per Mcf, 23% higher from the $2.55 per Mcf in February of this year. Despite the uncertainty in the commodity markets, the outlook for commodity prices remains optimistic. Accordingly, we expect Petrobras to witness improved price realizations in 2018 and beyond, which will augment its top-line growth. Aggressive Production Growth Targets Based on the latest Business and Management Plan (2018-2022), Petrobras expects to grow its overall hydrocarbon production to 3.5 million barrels of oil equivalent per day (MMboed) by 2022. This translates into a compound annual growth rate of 6.7% over the next 4 years. A majority of this growth will be driven by the ramp up in the company’s domestic oil production. The company expects its domestic oil output to grow at a compound annual rate of 8.4% and reach 2.9 MMboed by 2022 from the estimated output of 2.1 MMboed in 2018. This strong production growth will allow the company to capitalize on the improving commodity prices and record a solid top-line growth in the coming years. Focused Capital Investment Plan With the improving commodity markets and its aggressive growth plans, Petrobras aims to achieve its production target through focused capital investment, strategic partnerships, and a well-planned divestment program. The company plans to spend $74.5 billion in capital expenditure over the next 4-5 years. Since exploration and production of oil and natural gas is Petrobras’ core business, more than 80% of this capital budget will be spent on its upstream operations. Given the company’s plans to ramp up its hydrocarbon production over the next few years, a majority of the capital expenditure will be concentrated on completing major projects and bringing production on-stream as soon as possible. Petrobras expects to start 19 new production units, some owned and some leased, by 2022 to complement its production growth. Of these, almost 50% of the new units will be focused on pre-salt and post-salt projects. Apart from spending heavily on its E&P expansion, the company plans to spend around $13.2 billion on its downstream operations, primarily in refining, transportation, and marketing. While a large portion will be invested in pipelines, and natural gas processing units to offload its pre-salt production, a sizeable share of the investment will be focused on diesel quality and the 2nd phase of the RNEST refinery, for which partnerships are still being sought. Thus, an aggressive production growth target, coupled with a sustained recovery in commodity prices, will drive Petrobras’ revenue growth in the next 3-4 years. Further, a focused capital investment will complement the company’s production targets and augment its top-line growth. What’s behind Trefis? See How It’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams | Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Research Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own.