It might seem Saudi Arabia took an enormously dangerous risk in its slaying of Jamal Khashoggi, a Washington Post columnist, in the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul. The apparent decision of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to launch the operation did not come out of a blind hope that America in general, and the Trump Administration in particular, would look the other way or at least ride out the affair until the criticism died down. On the contrary, at least ten good reasons led to Saudi belief in Trump Administration acquiescence. First, of course, as Trump himself asserted, we have a $110 billion arms sale arrangement with the Saudis. That figure exaggerates what Trump actually has to show for his policy of vigorously hawking arms around the world in general, and to Saudi Arabia in particular. But, however calculated, the figure is large.    Second, the arms sales to the Saudis have benefits to the American arms industry beyond merely the figure of the sum. Lockheed sells its F-35 to the Saudis. This spreads the cost of development of the F-35 over a wider base of production, meaning that in sales to the United States armed forces, the Lockheed profit can be higher without raising the domestic price per plane. Third, Trump likes to claim that arms sales, including those to Saudi Arabia, produce jobs. This is another exaggeration. Arms sales are far more profit-growing than job-producing. But, sales to Saudi Arabia count as propaganda benefits to Trump. Fourth, Prince Mohammed counts on Trump as a dependable ally who turned away from the more objective and balanced diplomacy of Trump’s predecessor President Obama. Obama backed human rights in the Middle East, contrary to the tight control of the Saudi monarchy; and, Obama had succeeded in making an nuclear arms deal with Saudi Arabia’s nemesis, Iran. Fifth, the Trump Administration backs the brutal Saudi Arabian war in Yemen. This was not inevitable. The Obama administration, eying Saudi attacks on Yemeni civilians, temporarily halted sales of precision munitions. Under Trump, no such policy binds American efforts. While the Saudis are far more on the front lines in the war than we are, the United States actively backs them up. Sixth, the United States depends on Saudi Arabia to try to hold the world oil market stable. Saudi Arabia leads OPEC, and the Saudis have a working partnership with Russia as to oil. The United States fears that if oil prices rose too far too fast, it would put a break on the world economy, including the American economy. No effective braking is possible without Saudi Arabia. Seventh, the Trump Administration allies with the Israeli government under Prime Minister Netanyahu. And, Netanyahu sees Saudi Arabia as an ally against Iran. Eighth, the Saudis are an economic prize in ways besides sale of crude oil. Prince Mohamed is massively changing the Saudi economy. For example, he wishes to go public with ARAMCO, the gigantic Saudi oil producer. American banks are eagerly competing with those of other countries for the multi-billion-dollar prize of handling that IPO. Ninth, Trump has deployed all of America’s tools for harming Iran, the Saudi nemesis. The end of the nuclear arms deal was just the start. Trump is imposing tough economic sanctions on Iran that punish its economy. In fact, the Trump Administration is using secondary sanctions against Iran by threatening not to deal with companies from third-party countries, like European countries, for any dealings with Iran. Tenth, one can never forget the lesson of 9/11 – that American administrations will look the other way about what the Saudis do, even to Americans. Fifteen of the nineteen 9/11 hijackers had Saudi Passports. Osama bin Laden was son of the Saudi monarchy’s billionaire construction boss. The Saudis lavishly funded Osama’s mission in Afghanistan. George W. Bush provided a special plane to rush the Saudi aristocracy out of the United States, back to Saudi Arabia, before the FBI could question them in the immediate aftermath of 9/11. The indicia of Saudi connection to 9/11 are extensive. Yet the Saudis were never held accountable. None of these ten points are lost on the Saudi monarchy. By their slaying of Khashoggi, the Saudis show their calculation that Trump will not let them be too harmed.   