They aren't getting the national media attention that was focused on the year-long, often-violent protests of the Dakota Access Pipeline in 2016/17 , but activists are still disrupting the building of a number of pipelines around the country. Several major new oil and gas pipeline projects around the U.S. are experiencing delays and disruptions due to the ever-evolving tactics deployed by well-funded anti-development activist groups. Here are some examples that have taken place in recent weeks: All of this is so counterproductive and frankly, ill-advised. These pipelines are without question the safest, most efficient and most environmentally-friendly way to move oil and natural gas to the markets they serve, and the demand for the products they transport is strong and growing stronger. While all of these pipelines will ultimately end up being completed, time is money in the midstream business, and these delays and work stoppages only serve to raise the cost of energy for everyone, while doing little if anything to protect the environment. But the activist groups don't really care about any of that. They're in this for the conflict, because the creation and maintenance of conflict is how they raise their money. That's goal number one, the short-term goal of what they do. Goal number two is the long game: "Keep it in the ground". These groups do want to keep the oil and gas in the ground, one of their favorite talking points, in the belief that by doing so they can dramatically increase the price of oil and gas, thus forcing a more rapid conversion to their favored "renewable" fuel sources and electric vehicles. Having failed time and time again over a decade to "keep it in the ground" by banning Fracking or other onerous measures, they decided a few years ago to take a second, less direct track to hamper the production of oil and gas by preventing the means of transporting it to market, i.e., the building of pipelines. It's a pretty cynical game, but the good news for consumers is that it really has so far had only a marginal impact. At the end of the day, just like with Dakota Access, these lines will be completed, the oil and gas will be produced and flow to market, the lights will stay on and people will still be able to gas up their cars, albeit at a slightly higher price than should have been necessary.