Russia’s relations with the west have reached new post-Cold War lows: policy differences over Syria; the annexation of Crimea; alleged attempts to affect the outcome of elections in the United States; the poisoning in the United Kingdom of the Russian former double agent, Sergei Skripal, and his daughter, Yulia. The political conflicts which have followed have led to diplomatic expulsions, and sanctions being imposed by the US, the UK and other western nations. Now a new research paper, "Managed Confrontation: UK Policy towards Russia After the Salisbury Attack", published in London on Tuesday, has urged the UK to go further in confronting Russia. Presenting his work at the influential Chatham House Think Tank, the paper’s author, Duncan Allan, argued that it was, “No longer tenable to try to compartmentalize political and economic policy.” Allan – a former research analyst working on the former Soviet Union at the British Foreign Office – said that after the 2006 killing in London of Alexander Litvinenko (a former Russian security agent who had sought asylum in Britain), “the UK government’s rhetoric was not matched by its actions.” He continued, “As a result, the UK was not taken seriously.” Allan’s paper calls on the UK government “to close the gap” between rhetoric and action “by making vigorous and imaginative use of financial and supervisory instruments in order to discourage future unacceptable activities by imposing a material cost on Russia.” Despite the poor state of the relationship, trade between Russia and the UK continues. As the paper notes, citing figures from the UK Office of National Statistics, the value of UK exports to Russia in 2017 was £6bn ($7.69bn). The energy companies BP and Shell have “multi-billion-pound direct investments” in Russia’s energy sector. Anticipating the argument that further sanctions on Russian financial activity in London might lead to retaliation against British businesses in Russia – particularly those in the energy sector -- Allan’s response is that such a move by Moscow “would harm the operations of these companies’ [Russian] partners, Rosneft and Gazprom.” Addressing the question of economic relations with Russia within a political context is a challenge for any government. As the Financial Times noted in an article last year, “the UK is still struggling with a reputation as a haven for dirty money.” Speaking to an audience of Russia watchers at the launch of his research, Allan suggested that, “Better, more effective management of the UK financial sector would go some way towards restoring the UK’s reputation.” And the political times are especially challenging. Aside from its poor relationship with Russia, Britain is facing increasing uncertainty over its relationship with Europe and the wider world once it leaves the European Union. This is not lost on Russia. As Allan put it, “Brexit is further diminishing the UK in Russian eyes.” As it is, the UK may also be losing some of its appeal in Russian eyes. Russian billionaires have long favoured the British capital as a place to live, invest, and educate their offspring. Not all of the money which has found its way westwards has been legally acquired. Earlier this year, the British authorities announced the introduction of “Unexplained Wealth Orders”. The new legislation is designed to check on wealth the source of which owners cannot easily account for. It seems to have some rich Russians in London worried. Last weekend, The Financial Times offered the view that Russian oligarchs in London were “starting to look wholly endangered.” (See also this earlier Forbes post on the possible demise of “Londongrad”). The challenge of formulating economic policy towards Russia is complicated at the moment by the number of political variables: not least, how long President Vladimir Putin -- re-elected earlier this year for a further six-year term -- will remain the most powerful man in Russia. In addition, Britain needs to find its own role in the post-Brexit world -- where Russia may see it as isolated, weak, and insignificant. This is not a problem for the United States. As one international affairs veteran put it, "The Americans are in a category of their own. The Russians will not upset them."