After last week’s horror show, the stock market is poised for its second correction of the year. At Friday’s close, the S&P 500 was down 9.2% from its high point on Sept. 20. A 10% drop is the threshold for a market correction. Is there worse to come in the near term, as in a bear market (20% down)? Unlikely. In fact, the autumn slide is a terrific buying opportunity. Look at what happened after the January-February correction, when the S&P sank 10.1%. The index then soared 13.5% until late September, hitting a new record and more than making up for the lost ground from the winter downturn. So we’ve seen this movie before. The winter slide was a reaction to eerie-sounding headlines that seemed to portend a global economic problem. China’s yuan fell, raising fears that the world’s second largest economy was on the brink of big trouble, which would harm all the other countries that supply it with raw materials. Plus, oil prices tumbled, which triggered memories of the almost-recession of 2015-16, when commodities across the board got slammed. These bad things didn't end up, occurring, however. This time, the market’s wall of worry is greased with fears about the fallout from the U.S.-China trade war, a Brexit disaster, Italy’s face-off with the European Union over its budget and, most important, possibly waning earnings increases. Thus far, though, there’s no hint of a looming recession. For instance, earnings growth—which is the stock market’s biggest driver—likely will taper off, from around 22.6% this year to a 10.3% expansion next year and 9.5% in 2020, which still is pretty darn OK historically. And speaking of history, economist Ed Yardeni looks at previous periods of flagging market behavior over the past nine-plus years of the recovery and points out that they were great times to pick up stocks on the cheap. “October’s swoon should mark the latest buying opportunity,” he writes in a research note. The upshot for investors: Stocks are on sale. Look at the tech high-fliers, which used to be the main engine of the bull market. Lately, they’ve sputtered due to the larger market’s anxieties and their own woes, like data breaches, Russian mischief and the like. Facebook is a prime example: Last winter, it dropped 11.3%. That was a superb time to swoop in and get a bargain. The social network bounced back with a vengeance, and then shriveled anew this fall amid all the bad headlines surrounding it. But its earnings have done pretty well, regardless (the company reports third-quarter results on Tuesday). Result: Facebook stock is even more affordable than ever. The price/earnings ratio now is 22, down from 34 at the start of the winter correction. The pattern is the same among its peers. Google parent Alphabet changes hands at a 46 multiple, where previously it was 60. Amazon trades at 130, almost half of the 234 winter ratio. And hey, gross domestic product growth is motoring along, unemployment is very low, and the dollar’s climb appears to be leveling off (good news for U.S. multinationals and exporters, because a higher greenback makes American goods more expensive elsewhere). Yes, the party will end at some point. Earnings will shrink—a subject we’ll cover in the next post. But for now, this appears to be another pause. And a good chance to pick up quality stocks at a cut-rate price. 