The grizzly death of Saudi dissident and Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi is putting the U.S. - Saudi relationship – and global oil markets – to the test. Khashoggi’s murderers must be severely punished. The Trump Administration needs to make sure Riyadh understands that political assassinations are unacceptable. However, beyond that, both countries need to find a way to resolve the crisis, and continue their important strategic relationship for the sake of regional stability, opposition to Iranian hegemonic ambitions, and curbing terrorism. The picture of what transpired at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul is far from complete, and the information leaks are being managed by Turkey, Saudi Arabia’s competitor for leadership in the Sunni Islamic world (and hardly a paragon of freedom of the press). The startling admission by the Saudi government that Khashoggi was killed at the embassy by Saudi security forces sent to confront him, including a senior government coroner, is forcing the United States to rethink its “business as usual” relationship with Riyadh until all the culprits are identified and punished. The test of the U.S.-Saudi relationship, however, is to prevent a severing of the strategic security, energy, and economic ties between the United States and The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The dangers of destabilizing Saudi Arabia, potentially leading to a collapse of the al-Saud dynasty, or pushing Riyadh into the Russian or Chinese orbit, could be catastrophic. As Lord Palmerston famously said, great powers formulate and guide their foreign policies based on long-term interests. And the United States and Saudi Arabia share many: Energy: The United States imports 800,000 barrels of oil a day from Saudi Arabia, or 5% of the U.S. total supplies. While this figure is some 600,000 barrels lower than it was a decade ago thanks to the U.S. Shale Revolution, the Kingdom is still our second largest source of petroleum imports. From a global market perspective, Saudi Arabia produces one out of every ten barrels in circulation today, while the United States consumes two. The world’s largest oil exporter and the world’s number one oil consumer share a vested interest in keeping oil markets stable. In the past, the Kingdom has picked up oil market slack in times of global geopolitical tumult, be it after the Iranian Islamic revolution of 1979, or against Saddam Hussein in 1991 and again in 2003. The Saudi pledge to increase oil production in lieu of Iran’s export shortfall – brought on by U.S. sanctions – is the latest testament to these convergent energy interests. The market responses to the Khashoggi crises has thus far been muted, as investors realize that an 'oil weapon' move by the Saudis would be counter-productive both economically and strategically. I am inclined to agree. Trade: U.S. goods and services traded with Saudi Arabia totaled over $45 billion in 2017. Riyadh is the premier buyer of U.S. arms (three times greater than the next closest – Australia) and a $14.5 billion Saudi commitment to buy U.S. weaponry – part of a larger $110 billion arms sale deal involving including Lockheed Martin (NYSE:LMT) and Boeing (NYSE:BA)– now hangs in the balance. Owning $166.8 billion in U.S. Treasury securities, the Saudis ranks 10th among foreign holders of American bonds. And in Silicon Valley, Saudi investors have participated in investment rounds totaling at least $6.2 billion – just in the past 5 years. As I discussed in a previous article, startup 'unicorns' like Uber, Lyft, Snap (NYSE:SNAP) Tesla (NYSE:TSLA) have all received direct or indirect funding from the massive Saudi Public Investment Fund. Security: Saudi Arabia has proven a dependable bulwark against the Islamic Republic of Iran since 1979. Iran is an anti-status quo regional power, which undermines the Middle East from Aleppo to Yemen, and both Washington, DC, and Riyadh share an interest in checking its destructive regional ambitions. Another critical partner in the region – Israel – relies on a stable Saudi Arabia to keep the balance of power in the Middle East. Riyadh has been a key ally in the fight against ISIS, as well as the murderous Bashar-al-Assad regime in Syria. The Kingdom’s stewardship of Mecca and Medina, the two holiest sites in the Muslim world, makes Saudi Arabia the geopolitical center of Islam. Destabilizing the “Land of the Two Mosques” could have dire consequences. Don’t throw the baby out with the bathwater Not since the 1973-1974 OPEC oil embargo and the 9/11 majority-Saudi attack on the U.S. have bilateral ties between the U.S. and the Kingdom been so tenuous. It is critical that this White House keep a grand strategic perspective when deliberating its course of action. The relationship with Riyadh was struck between President Franklin D. Roosevelt and King Abdel Aziz Ibn Saud, father of the current King, on board the USS Murphy in the Great Bitter Lake in 1945. Roosevelt and the King laid the foundation for a strategic alliance, which endured till today. The United States will probably sanction those in the senior echelons of the Saudi government proven to be involved. Even administration allies, such as Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) are on the warpath to avenge Khashoggi’s murder. I agree with Richard Haass, President of the Council on Foreign Relations, when he recommends an impartial and thorough investigation into the murder, but warns against conflating whoever the guilty party may be – with Saudi Arabia itself. The United States has a long history of working with imperfect leaders of important countries. Granted, Washington needs to maintain the equilibrium between lofty ideals and geopolitical interests. How the Trump Administration manages the current crisis while salvaging this special relationship will define U.S. policy in the Middle East for years to come. James C. Grant, Program Manager at International Market Analysis Ltd, contributed to this article 