In our previous column, we featured eight stocks from Canada. We now turn to south, as several leading investment advisors, and contributors to MoneyShow.com, offer their top ideas in the Caribbean and Central and South America. Paul Goodwin, Cabot Emerging Markets Investor A persistent correction has been dragging the emerging markets group down since the middle of January. But if I were forced to pick a stock that I think has a great shot at rebounding from the current downtrend, I would pick PagSeguro Digital, a Brazilian-based company that’s offering a digital payment system that can be used by small-sized and medium-sized enterprises.    PagSeguro Digital is an offshoot of Universo Online, the biggest internet portal in Brazil, which gives the company a strong technology base. Revenue growth has been meteoric, slowing from five quarters of triple-digit gains to 98% in Q1 2018 and 55% in Q2. Earnings per share have been growing at triple-digit rates for the past 10 quarters. Analysts are forecasting EPS growth of 74% this year and 45% next year. The company’s client base has reached 3.5 million, which is up 69% from Q2 2017. The company has just 3% of its addressable market, and has the potential for much greater penetration. PagSeguro came public in late January, running from $28 at its IPO to $40 in late March. That’s when the weakness of the whole class of emerging market stocks got hold of the stock and pulled it to as low at $25 in August. PagSeguro is trading 31% below its March high and sports a 41 P/E ratio. Roger Conrad, Conrad's Utility Forecaster For those interested in an aggressive bet that South America’s stronger nations will recover, our picks are Enel SpA and its two South American units Enel Chile and Enel Americas. Enel SpA shares give investors exposure to the entire family, including the largest electric utilities in Italy and Spain. Enel Chile is focused solely on that Andean nation, with its main assets the core of the former Enersis SA. Enel Americas runs Enel SpA’s assets elsewhere in South America, including Brazil and Argentina. All three have seen their stocks take sharp hits this year on concerns about emerging stock markets, economies and currencies. But they’re also backed by strong balance sheets and secure franchises and they posted solid first half 2018 results despite the ongoing turmoil. The trio also raised their dividends as they’ve added assets through construction and acquisitions. Of the three, Enel SpA is best suited for more conservative investors, thanks to greater diversification, larger size and grounding in eurozone countries. We’d be buyers now on a dip to US $4.50 or lower. Enel Chile and Enel Americas, however, are already very cheap and buys up to US $6 and US $12, respectively. Jim Powell, Global Changes & Opportunities Report Many companies have long histories of booms and busts. The same is true of some countries. Many of them are located in South America where bad political decisions often turn economic expansions into recessions. At some point, disgruntled citizens elect leaders with more conservative agendas, and conditions begin to improve. Nowhere is the yo-yo effect more pronounced than in Argentina that has been experiencing tough economic times and political turmoil. The country has a great deal going for it. Argentina has a growing manufacturing industry and a bountiful agricultural sector. The country also has the world’s second largest shale gas reserves, and the fourth largest reserves of shale oil. With oil prices hitting $81 a barrel, Argentina’s energy bounty is becoming increasingly valuable. Equally timely is the government’s program to eliminate its primary fiscal deficit by next year. It will help even if the deficit can only be cut 15% - 20%. For its part, the IMF recently revised its $40 billion aid program to help the country pay its foreign debts. Foreign repayments will also be aided by the current correction in the U.S. dollar, an event that I have been predicting for several months Lastly, devaluing the Argentine peso reduced the value of the country’s internal debts, a path that most countries — including the U.S. — will soon need to take with their currencies. The bottom line is that Argentina’s economic plunge appears to be slowly turning into a new upturn. If I am correct, investors in the Global X FTSE Argentina ETF should see excellent long-term profits. Mike Cintolo, Cabot Top Ten Trader Colombia-based oil explorer and producer Ecopetrol is making its second-ever appearance in Top Ten buy list based on a convergence of factors. First, the price of crude oil futures has increased from below $30 in January 2016 to over $73 recently. Second, the company made a major offshore gas discovery in 2017 that is now being drilled and explored. And third, the company itself is ramping up capital expenditures. Cost reductions are also part of the story. These efforts have resulted in triple-digit earnings growth in six of the last seven quarters, and revenue growth that has jumped from 7% in Q3 2017 to 34% in the latest quarter. Analysts are forecasting 83% earnings growth this year. There’s no magic bullet here, but with three solid factors supporting it and a dividend that yields 2.3% going forward, Ecopetrol is a solid proposition. Ecopetrol went over the falls for three years, slipping from $52 in early 2013 to $5 in January 2015. The stock has had three legs up since 2017, with a couple of consolidation periods. At just over $27, the stock is a little extended, so look for a pullback of at least a point to get started. Petróleo Brasileiro S.A., known as Petrobras , is the Brazilian national oil company; it is a great turnaround story that has already qualified for Cabot Top Ten Trader twice this year. The company has several things going for it right now, with the most important being the continuation of high oil prices and increasing prices for natural gas. That makes Petrobras’ reserves of well over 12 billion barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) a very valuable asset. The company, which got a new CEO in June, is also reaping the benefits of a program of cost cuts that have improved after-tax profit margins and was partly responsible for the company’s earnings turnaround in the second quarter. Since 2014, Petrobras was at the center of a legendary scandal that implicated dozens of politicians, business leaders and company executives, and emerging from that scandal has also helped to restore the company’s credibility. And finally, with its financial health recovering, the company is embarking on a program of capital expenditures that will improve exploration and drilling efforts. Investors are also pleased with reports that the company may sell or spin off assets to help finance growth and reduce debt. Petrobras is a definite contender for comeback of the year awards. And its 10 forward P/E ratio and modest dividend (2.1% forward annual yield) increase its appeal. Mark Skousen, Five Star Trader Alert Higher interest rates will benefit the bank stocks the most. I especially like Popular BPOP +0%  Moreover, more and more wealthy investors are moving to Puerto Rico to take advantage of its tax haven status (residents pay only 4% income tax). In the past 12 months, revenues rose 11% to $1.7 billion, and earnings soared 191% to $286 million. Operating margins exceed 29%. Popular Inc. is in good financial shape, despite the commonwealth going bankrupt. It has $9 billion in cash and only $1.9 billion in debt. It sharply cut its dividend in 2008-09, but has adopted a rising dividend policy since then (currently 25 cents per share per quarter). And the stock price is selling for only nine times expected earnings. That’s a bargain. Let’s add Popular Inc. to our trading portfolio and set a protective stop of $42 a share. Omar Ayales, Gold Charts R Us Recent trading is showing strong signs of a turnaround in the gold universe. Gold broke up to an 11- week high, above its April downtrend and its 15-week moving average at the $1217 level. It looks good above this level. In addition, our in-house short-term gold momentum indicator shot upward, confirming the strength behind the metal’s recent up-move. We already have a full position with an average buy-in near gold’s current price. But depending on your overall exposure, if you're open or looking to increase your gold position, now would be a good time to pick up some. We’ve been looking at other gold shares that represent great opportunities. B2Gold is one of my favorites at current prices. It’s a company growing by leaps and bounds with its major mine operations is safe jurisdictions. It does have a mining operation in Nicaragua but it has not been affected by local turmoil. We recommend buying some B2Gold at market. Keep in mind, the stock rose with strength after breaking above its 15-week moving average at $2.40 and could be short-term overbought. Buy more on a pullback, ideally below $2.50. Our first profit target is at $3.20. Place stops on a 2-day close below $2.40. Compañía Mina Buenaventura BVN +0%  It has solid assets and management in safe jurisdictions. The company is also breaking from a head & shoulders bottom with upside target near $16. I recommend buying some at market and more below $13.50. Our initial profit targets are set at the $16 and $20 levels. Place stops on a 2-day close below $13.   