The New York Times published an interesting piece about the oil and gas boom on federal lands over the weekend. Or rather, as the Times's headline puts it, the "Fracking Boom" on federal lands, because of course the headline contains that loaded word, along with the implication that the entire drilling (which, believe it or not, is not the same thing as "fracking") boom is being "Driven By Trump Policy Changes." It isn't. If that headline weren't enough to provide the casual reader with the basic angle of the piece, then the first sentence, detailing how a "parade of trailer trucks rolling through Jay Butler's dusty ranch is a precursor to a new fracking boom" ought to tip them off. If that still isn't enough, then subsequent phrasing like "the Trump administration is auctioning off millions of acres of drilling rights," "the White House's plan to work hand in glove with the industry," and "big energy companies...are seizing on the federal lands free-for-all" should finally get you there. And that just takes you through the third paragraph. This is not the painting of a rosy picture about the domestic oil and gas industry. The basic thesis of the piece appears to be that the Trump Administration is offering a bunch more federal acreage for leasing than was offered during the Obama years, and that's bad. While it is true that the Trump Administration has increased the amount of onshore acreage being offered for lease, that's only part of the story. As Steve Everley at EnergyInDepth pointed out on Saturday, what really matters is how many of the acres offered are actually leased by oil and gas companies, and as the chart included here clearly shows, that number falls well within the lower end of the range leased annually during the Obama Administration. Yes, the Trump Administration has increased the frequency of federal lease sales and the amounts of acreage offered in them, but the net result of that is to basically bring them more in-line with the practices of the George W. Bush Administration, after both were cut back during the Obama years. There is nothing unprecedented about the current leasing program. The Times does correctly identify the fact that drilling and production from federal lands - both onshore and offshore - have increased significantly during the last 21 months. No doubt about it. As the story points out, "Nationally, oil production on federal lands is rising at an extraordinary pace, jumping 25 per cent in the first seven months of this year compared with 2016, the last year of the Obama administration." But again, the Obama Administration had worked very hard to limit leasing and drilling opportunities on federal lands, so it should be no surprise that by 2016, those efforts had resulted in activity on federal lands that was well below that seen during the Bush or Clinton administrations. Also, the Times omits the fact that total U.S. oil production from all land types - not just federal lands controlled by the Interior Department - has also risen almost exactly 25% since January, 2017, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration's (EIA) data. Did the Trump policies really drive all of that? No. What other extremely critical driver has taken place since January, 2017? Well, the most obvious thing is the fact that the price for West Texas Intermediate, which sat at $53/bbl on the day President Trump took office, rose by more than 40% to over $75/bbl in early October before falling back to its current $67 level. It's a pretty typical feature of the oil and gas industry that, when the price for oil runs up by 40%, the levels of drilling and production do tend to rise along with it. Have the Trump policy changes played a role in producing the current boom on federal lands and all across the country? Sure, and I've written extensively about that fact since last January. But no set of government policies can equal the impact of a 40% run-up in commodity prices , outside of an absolute ban or moratorium on drilling. If the price for crude was still languishing at $53/bbl, the U.S. would not be in the midst of the most significant development boom since the early 1980s. By the same token, had the price run up by 40% during the last two years of the Obama presidency, we'd have experienced a drilling boom then as well, though the Obama policies would have dampened it to some extent. Outside of bans and moratoria, government policies mainly influence energy production on the margins. The real driver of this and every other oil boom America has experienced in modern times is the price producers can obtain for the commodity they produce. 