China tariffs will make shopping in the upcoming Christmas season more expensive. American consumers will have to pay more for Christmas items that are usually imported for China. And China tariffs will also hurt retailers catering to these consumers -- like Walmart. Last month, Walmart warned the White House that its latest batch of tariffs could make it more expensive for U.S. households to buy merchandise, ranging from cribs to Christmas lights. Walmart didn’t return a call for a comment.    Tariffs are sales taxes to foreign products. And as is the case with regular sales taxes, one portion of China tariffs will be absorbed by sellers. The other portion will be paid by consumers in the form of higher prices. That’s certainly bad news for all Americans. But it’s worse for those living on a tight budget. They will be forced to scale back on usual Christmas purchases. It’s also bad news for retailers like Walmart who cater to this market segment.Low income Americans spend 20-22% more on Walmart (WMT) than it spends with other retailers, according to InfoScout. WMT Shopper Demographics--Income Income Demographic Index *This group spends 22% more on WMT than it spends across retailers. **This group spends 38% on WMT than it spends across retailers. Source: InfoScout 8/27/18 To be fair, Walmart isn't as dependent on China-made product as it seems. "About 56% of WMT's sales are grocery," says retail analyst John Zolidis. "Health and wellness (pharmacy, many branded consumer products, consumables) constitute11% of US sales. These two important product categories are primarily sourced domestically." And there are a couple of factors that may counter the impact of tariffs on low income Americans. One of them is a strong labor market, as evidence by a stream of strong payroll reports, which have driven the unemployment rate below 4%. Another factor is minimum wage hikes, which put more money into the pockets of low-income Americans. But there are a couple factors that have been pressuring low income Americans, too. Like the ever-rising cost of healthcare, and, most recently, soaring crude oil prices that fuel price hikes for gasoline and heating oil. At any rate, investors should pay close attention to Walmart’s stock and to the stocks of other retailers who cater to the low-income consumers. They may be in for a big surprise. 