If you're a student of price charts, you have to be fascinated lately by the look of a couple of significant markets that greatly affect all of the planet: oil and bond yields. Technical analysis is imperfect -- so is fundamental analysis. What you get from the charting of price movement can be helpful even if you're focused mostly on free cash flow, the relationship of equity to debt or any of the mundane business school material that can be analyzed to death. Price charts keep it simple. They answer these questions: what's the long-term trend? What's the short-term trend? How high did it get last time around before selling came in? How low did it get last time around before buying entered? This information can be useful in determining whether to enter, to leave, to add to, or to take some off the table. Here's a monthly view of light crude oil -- that is, the high price, the low price and the closing price for the month: What information can be gleaned from this? The first thing is, from the standpoint of the long-term, oil is lower now than it was when it peaked at 150 during the financial crisis that stormed all markets in 2008. Secondly, oil remains lower today than the peaks in the 110/120 area of the 2011 through 2014 period. The 2016 low of 26 demonstrates the remarkably wide range of price that shows up over time -- from 150 to 26 in 8 years. At the recent price of 75, about half of the down move has been retraced, but the price of oil remains below the down trend line extending from the 2008 peak. From the standpoint of monthly chart analysis, oil is in a down trend. The weekly chart for light crude oil looks like this: On this shorter time frame, it's clear that price remains up trending from the major early 2016 low. This week's selling is testing that trend line, for sure. If it closes below that and then takes out that up trending Ichimoku cloud, then it could said that a trend reversal has taken place. But we're not quite there yet. Now here is the monthly chart for the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury notes -- one of the key interest rate benchmarks widely followed by bond market enthusiasts: The downtrend in yields extending from the 2008 crisis period to 2017 is definitely over. The rate is now well above that downtrend line and above the cloud. October will very likely end higher than September. Here's the weekly look: The rate has backed off a bit early October peak and is now testing the breakout level that took it above the May and September peaks. We'll see if it holds. Meantime, the up trend in rates continues. How high can we go? That 2007 peak on the monthly chart might be considered as resistance target from a technical analysis view point, but there are no guarantees. I do not hold positions in these investments. No recommendations are made one way or the other. If you're an investor, you'd want to look much deeper into each of these situations. You can lose money trading or investing in stocks and other instruments. Always do your own independent research, due diligence and seek professional advice from a licensed investment advisor.