The Russians are coming. Right for the heart of the Ukrainian economy. And even for a billionaire that President Trump calls a friend. In the fall of 2015, then Republican candidate for president Donald Trump was introduced via satellite to a crowd of people attending the Yalta European Strategy conference, known as the YES conference for short. The conference is largely the operation of Ukrainian billionaire philanthropist Victor Pinchuk. Through fits and starts on a poor telecommunications hook-up, Trump referred to Pinchuk as his friend. He said Russia was being too hard on the Ukrainians. A year prior they had annexed Crimea, a southeast peninsula once considered Ukrainian real estate. Fast forward to November 1, 2018 and Trump's friend Pinchuk is whacked with sanctions from the Russian government. As are 321 other individuals along with 68 companies, including Gazprom’s former partner Naftogaz and its CEO Andrei Kobolev. It’s collateral damage, really. As the U.S. prepares for more sanctions against Russian banks and maybe even banning investing in Russian sovereign bonds, the Russians seem to have preempted them and taken it out on Ukraine. For at least three years now Ukraine has been the starting point for sanctions against Russia. But in the past year, other matters such as election meddling and—more importantly—Syria have turned Washington off more than Russia’s incursion into eastern Ukraine and the “occupation” of Crimea. When it comes to reasons for going after Russia, Ukraine is now an afterthought. Russia has seen a blind spot and has hit Ukraine with its harshest sanctions yet. See: Russia-Ukraine Ties Sour As Moscow Imposes Sanctions — The New York Times The sanctions were announced and have had no meaningful impact on the Ukrainian currency. Ukraine’s stock market was also flat on the news, suggesting investors there have yet to weigh the impacts. The economy is largely under the auspices of IMF austerity. A new deal is supposedly in the works, according to Ukrainian officials. Russia is now blocking financial instruments of hundreds of individuals and corporations, including Ukrainian property held in Russia. They are also banned from taking money out of Russia. The executive order imposing sanctions cites the “unfriendly actions” of Ukraine and was signed by Vladimir Putin on October 22 before going into effect last week. Famous Ukrainian politician Yulia Tymoshenko was sanctioned, along with what looks like a wild spectrum of anti-Kremlin ideologues, from right-wing political figure and Euromaidan activist Dmitry Yarosh to left-wing nationalist Oleg Lyashko. Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko's 33-year-old son Alexey was also sanctioned. He is also a member of parliament and was sanctioned for his role in supporting anti-Russian forces in the Donbass, the eastern Ukraine industrial region still reeling from fighting between Ukraine and pro-Russian forces. Pinchuk is the most famous and pro-Western of all the people targeted by Moscow. Ironically, he also wrote an op-ed in the WSJ two years after the Crimean annexation arguing for Ukraine to stand down and let the Russians take it or risk further military strife between the two closely knit countries. Pinchuk was lambasted for his comments and never discussed it publicly again. Thursday’s sanctions prove, for Pinchuk, that “no good deed goes unpunished.” His company has already been hit with loss of business due to the bitter Russia-Ukraine divorce. Interpipe defaulted on over 200 billion euros in debt in 2014. It wasn’t the first time the mega-yacht-owning billionaire watched his company crumble. He has blamed it on the Russians before. Now he has a real reason to blame restrictions on his wealth on Putin and company.