Serbia, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece intend to submit a joint bid for the FIFA 2030 World Cup and the UEFA 2028 European Championship. The proposal was put forward last Friday by the Greek Prime Minister on the sidelines of a summit at the Bulgarian resort of Varna. According to Greek newspaper Ekathimerini, the Bulgarian Prime Minister said the idea “is worth discussing” at a news conference at that summit. Bulgaria’s Minister of Sport also reportedly confirmed his country’s intention to be part of the joint bid earlier this week, saying that the countries have enough time to prepare. The bidding process for the 2030 World Cup hasn’t officially begun yet, and voting for the right to host the tournament won’t happen before 2022, but already several countries have declared their intentions to bid. For the southeast European bid to win, it will likely have to get past a South American joint bid from Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay, a bid from the British Isles, and another bid from Morocco, which may be a joint bid with other North African countries, or possibly with Spain and Portugal. Southeast Europe has plenty of soccer history, Red Star Belgrade won the European Cup in 1991 and Steaua Bucharest won it in 1985. Clubs from Romania, Serbia and Greece have also reached the final of Europe’s biggest club competition in the past before TV money made it the preserve of the big Western European leagues. Anyone who saw Red Star Belgrade’s win over Liverpool this week or has watched Greek sides like Olympiakos or PAOK will know that the region is passionate about soccer and that a World Cup in southeast Europe would have a fantastic atmosphere. It’s certainly a more attractive soccer destination than 2022 World Cup host Qatar. The region hasn’t hosted a major soccer tournament since the 1976 European Championship in Yugoslavia, but Athens did host the 2004 Olympics, and Romania’s 55,000-seat national stadium is one of the group stage venues for the upcoming UEFA 2020 European Championship. FIFA’s demands in terms of infrastructure mean that a lot of work is needed for a Southeast Europe World Cup to become a reality. Simply in terms of capacity, FIFA requires stadiums to be able to hold 40,000 fans in order to host World Cup matches. Currently just four stadiums in use across the region reach those minimum requirements so a stadium-building campaign will be necessary, although some large new modern stadiums were already being planned before the World Cup proposal was mooted, including a new national stadium in Serbia, and rebuilding Red Star Belgrade’s famous ‘Marakana’ stadium. Greece also has several high-quality stadiums that are just below FIFA’s attendance requirements, and could possibly require just minor renovations or temporary seating. The Olympic Stadium in Athens is not far off the 80,000 capacity required to host the World Cup final, and has hosted the Champions’ League final in the past as well as the Olympics. Greece and the Black Sea coast are popular tourist destinations, but airport and hotel capacity across the four countries would need upgrading. Especially as the mountainous terrain and poor cross-border road networks make getting between the countries difficult. Smack-bang between Greece and Serbia are Macedonia and Kosovo, which could create a diplomatic problem for the bid. The bidding nations will need the support of their neighbors if they are to be successful. On the other hand, a ‘Balkans World Cup’ could provide the political will to find solutions to some of the longstanding diplomatic issues facing the region, and the improved infrastructure could bring the bidding nations closer together. Memories of the Greek financial crisis, partly caused by overspending on the 2004 Athens Olympics, will also make many question how Greece, Serbia, Romania and Bulgaria can afford to host a World Cup. China and Russia have both recently invested in the region through initiatives like Beijing’s One Belt One Road and Gazprom’s sponsorship of Red Star Belgrade, but while such investment in the region may help finance World Cup construction and provide support for the World Cup bid, it could also lead to other issues down the line. The ever-increasing cost of hosting what by 2030 will be a 48-team World Cup makes it tough for all but the largest and most powerful countries to bid alone, but bidding with other nations will help each of the countries involved lower its individual costs of hosting the tournament. UEFA chief Aleksander Ceferin has previously said that Europe should submit just one bid, supported by the whole confederation, for the 2030 World Cup to increase the chances of that bid being successful. This would put Serbia, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece’s possible bid up against a bid from the British Isles and possibly Spain in a sort of ‘European primary’. A split vote from UEFA members would seriously harm the confederation’s chances of hosting the World Cup, so it is possible that the southeast European nations are using this bid as a bargaining chip to improve their chances of hosting Euro 2028, especially as the four countries could meet the hosting requirements of that tournament relatively easily without creating a series of white elephant super-stadiums. However, it has been suggested that Spain is trying the same strategy so either way there could be serious competition for both Euro 2028 and the 2030 World Cup. One thing is for sure though, after the success of the United 2026 bid, and the failure of Morocco’s single-country bid, more and more countries, particularly smaller nations, are seeing joint bids as their route to host soccer’s biggest tournament. 