A U.S. economic sledgehammer is falling on the Islamic Republic of Iran and global energy markets couldn’t care less – at least for now. Brent crude oil futures are up a meager $0.62 from their $72.61 open – bringing the benchmark to $73.23 just 12 hours into the first official day of renewed sanctions. Brent’s American cousin, West Texas Intermediate (WTI), is trading up $0.56 to $63.70 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. So why is the Trump administration’s widely-touted plan to remove more than 2.0 million barrels per day (b/d) of Iranian exports from global supply not causing a market shockwave? There are a few explanations for this: the first being that eight of Iran’s largest buyer’s (most of them U.S. allies) were granted waivers to continue purchasing Persian crude for a limited time. China, India, South Korea, Japan, Italy, Greece, Taiwan and Turkey can continue imports for up to 180 days without penalty. Those given temporary exceptions will deposit Iran’s revenue in escrow accounts where Tehran will be able to access those funds for humanitarian purposes. That’s the plan, anyway.    The State Department made clear on several occasions that the probability of exemptions would be extremely low. This summer senior administration officials said: “We will certainly be requesting that [buyers of Iranian oil imports] go to zero without question by Nov. 4th…No, we’re not going to do waivers.” As recently as September, Secretary of State Pompeo told his counterparts in India that “waivers may be considered where appropriate” but expectations were that “purchases of Iranian crude oil will go to zero from every country or sanctions will be imposed.” If you were shocked by White House actions not aligning with White House rhetoric, perhaps you should check out “The Art of the Deal” from your local library. This is a standard Trump negotiating tactic, one that he has deployed against Germany, China, North Korea, and his political opponents. The exemptions are a smart way to continue to apply pressure to Iran without causing a spike in global crude prices – an especially dangerous notion so close to the U.S. midterm elections. This is likely why China, Iran's top export destination, was included in the waiver list. In that sense, the U.S. sanctions hammer will be coming down on Iran as a series of taps rather than one heavy swing. Furthermore, the effects of sanctions had largely already been priced into the market. The 20% oil price runup we witnessed between September and mid-October was driven primarily by Iranian supply risk (compounded by shortages in Venezuela and North Africa). Many in the business raised alarm bells of $100 per barrel (bbl) returning once again. But now it looks like those with significant spare capacity – namely U.S. shale producers and OPEC Plus heavy-hitters Saudi Arabia and Russia -- will have more than enough supply to pick up the slack. With all three pumping at or near record volumes, collective output from Russia, the United States and Saudi Arabia rose above 33 million b/d in October, up 10 million b/d since 2010. Record output from the world’s top three oil producers amidst rising stockpiles in the OECD, decreasing demand among emerging markets, and a slowing global economy all contributed to mute the effects of sanctions on world energy prices. Regular readers of my column will remember that I cited these very same macroeconomic factors in my recent argument against the $100 bbl. While global markets seem as-of-yet unfazed, Iran is starting to feel the bite. Oil exports account for roughly one-third of Tehran’s revenue, and more than 20 countries have already cut a combined 1 million barrels per day of Iranian imports. According to Secretary of state Mike Pompeo, “The regime to date since May has lost over $2.5 billion in oil revenue.” With the sanctions’ onset, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei remained defiant, and so were other hardliners, like the Iran Revolutionary Guards commander Qassem Suleimani. The real question remains whether Iran will change its international behavior – the goal of renewed U.S. sanction pressure. The Trump Administration wants Iran to stop uranium enrichment indefinitely, terminate its ballistic missile program, and cease support of terror organizations and Shi’a militias in Lebanon, Syria, Iraq, and Yemen – something the Obama Administration failed to achieve. Let’s hope that the Donald Trump approach to negotiating with Iran yields better results than that of his predecessor; all the better if oil markets remain under control in the process.  James C. Grant, Program Manager at International Market Analysis Ltd., contributed to this article   