With U.S. sanctions on Iran coming next week, oil remains the talk of the energy world. And that makes sense: oil is the engine of global economic growth, supplying 35% of all energy used. One of the great misconceptions today is that renewable energy will simply be handed the energy future. Wind and solar are surely set to dominate, so why don't oil and gas just please go away already? Yet the reality is very quiet and much different. While wind and solar are evolving of course, so are oil and gas technologies    In fact, the U.S. shale oil and gas revolution since 2008 is a prime example of this constant advance: an amazing evolution of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling in America that has transformed energy markets around the world. Oil's progress is without stop. Petroleum fuels, such as gasoline and diesel fuel, have proven superior to other forms of energy in numerous ways, and have enabled the emergence of more efficient prime movers. Oil ignited agricultural mechanization, and liquid fuels for transportation and the literally thousands of fine tunings of the internal combustion engine eventually led to vehicles, planes, ships, and trains propelled by gasoline and diesel fuel. Oil’s unique relative abundance, high energy content, ease of transport and storage, flexibility of final use, and convenience to burn converge into a lack significant substitutes and an established low price elasticity of demand. This explains why, per person, it is the most developed countries that use the most oil. Although the rate of growth is not always the same, we know that global oil demand will continue to increase in the years ahead: 85% of the global population lives in still developing nations, and their oil journeys have just started. To illustrate, even though the U.S.-China trade war has been lowering projections of economic growth in 2019 and thus lowering expected oil demand, it will not lower oil use absolutely. There is a critical difference between "growing less fast" and "shrinking" that typically gets conflated. Both EIA and IEA have consistently modeled more and more oil, because it's the ultimate no-brainer: the world will add 2.5 billion people and $90 trillion in real GDP by 2050. And the anti-oil business is in a major predicament: even if oil demand drops, prices thereby drop, thereby encouraging more oil use once again. The good news is that for oil, greater efficiency is as routine as new demand. Using less oil and less oil to generate more and more economic growth (see Figure below). For example, it hardly goes reported that the internal combustion engine is always improving and emitting fewer greenhouse gas emissions. The future passenger vehicle market will not simply be handed over to Mr. Musk. But even with more electric cars, petrochemicals and more jet fuel for airplanes will expand oil needs around the world. As the still developing world like China and India advances on, their use of oil will evolve as well. Both have installed energy efficiency as a key strategy to reduce costly imports and emissions. And both want to cut air pollution in their cities, so getting a handle on spiraling vehicle use and oil-swallowing gridlock is a top priority. Especially in China, the world's second highest oil consumer but still having great latent demand, a centrally driven economy gives authorities plenty of tools to alter consumer behavior, particularly as compared to democratic lawmakers in the West. It is noteworthy that significantly higher gasoline prices as of late in China and India have not reduced demand as much as you would think. These countries have lower incomes that make it harder for citizens to absorb higher prices but both have government price controls and use giant subsidies to interfere with the market. Also encouraging more demand, global oil prices had their biggest monthly fall in October since mid-2016. The U.S. itself shows how lowering oil use is anything but easy. Despite policies and mandates to do so, U.S. oil demand has not been reduced in the absolute sense at all. In fact, in 2017 U.S. oil demand was at 20 million b/d, or the highest it has been since 2007. In the still developing world, however, there needs to be an evolution to more transport usage to offer more oil efficiency. For example, about 75% of U.S. oil use is in the transport sector, the highest form of use. Transport accounts for about 50% of oil demand in Africa and China and only 40% in India. These percentages will increase as the nations develop. 