The United States was serious when it said it would apply the toughest sanctions ever placed on Iran. The Trump administration is re-imposing punitive measures on Iran by targeting the Iranian oil and the financial sector. These measures have taken effect today and this confirms the concrete determination of the Trump administration to make the Iranian government bow to its will. The measures will mainly affect Iranian companies in direct business with other foreign firms. Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has denounced the measures as a disgrace to the U.S. prestige and he is confident that these measures have already harmed the U.S. relations to other countries. The Trump administration could make the U.S. position weaker and the country could be a loser in the longer term. U.S. Secretary of States Mike Pompeo has said that the sanctions would be re-imposed and Iran would need to change its stance of conducting things. Traders are on high alert and watching the oil market very closely. Under the re-imposed sanctions, the mission is to bring the oil export near to zero. Currently, the country is producing nearly 3.4 million barrels per day. October’s production is down only by 10,000 barrels per day. The spare capacity for the country stands at 4.0 million barrels per day. Eight temporary waivers have been issued for countries that have made significant moves toward shunning import of Iranian oil. Japan, India and South Korea are getting the waiver and China is in talks for a waiver along with Turkey and Taiwan. Some completely close-minded individuals think that the waivers granted are too generous and the U.S. should stop all Iranian banks from using its SWIFT system. However, the counter-reaction is already in play. The long-standing allies of the U.S., Germany, France and the U.K. said in a joint statement that the U.S. decision to re-impose the sanctions is “deeply regretful”. They are going to work together to carry on their legitimate work relation with the Republic of Iran and provide a system and protection for the European economic operators. Only Saudi Arabia, the leading player of the OPEC committee, can fill in for the lost supply. Saudi oil production touched a level of 10.68 million barrels per day, an increase of 150K b/d. The spare capacity of Saudi Arabia stands at 11.5 million barrels per day. OPEC has increased its output by 430K barrels to 33.33 million barrels a day during October, the highest since 2016. The oil market has been somewhat stable as traders are not overreacting. They think that the increase in the oil production by other oil members and most importantly the waiver for some nations would continue to support the Iranian oil supply. On top of this, we see the demand curve shifting adversely and this has eaten up a lot of market’s strength. Back in October, the oil price surged towards its four-year high, but ever since, the global equity market raised concerns about the fuel demand. Looking at the prices now, one could easily see that the price is near the bear territory. It has dropped nearly 16.04% from its peak. The OPEC committee needs to pay attention to the increase in the oil production levels because the Iranian oil production isn’t slowing dramatically. The fear of supply glut would surface again if there is no restraint in output by 2019.