Doug Lawler, five years into his quest to rightsize and rebuild Chesapeake Energy, surprised investors Tuesday with the unexpected acquisition of WildHorse Resource Development for $4 billion. Speaking at the Deloitte Oil & Gas conference in Houston, he called it the deal “a pivot point” for the company.  The prize here is 420,000 net acres of unconventional oil and gas fields, already producing 47,000 barrels a day, most of it from the oil zone of the Eagle Ford shale of southeast Texas, with an additional gas play in the Terryville field of North Louisiana. It works out to about $7,000 per undeveloped acre and $900,000 per undrilled location.  Chesapeake is buying WildHorse, which has a thin public float, mostly from a cadre of private equity backers led by Natural Gas Partners and Carlyle Group, with KKR holding a small piece. Capital owns about 70%, Carlyle Group 24% and KKR about 5%, according to SEC filings. No surprise Chesapeake shares were down 15% on the day. When the deal closes, Wildhorse investors will own a whopping 45% of Chesapeake’s equity.  Just minutes after getting off the phone with analysts, Lawler gave a presentation to a packed house in the ballroom at the Mariott Marquis, in which he articulated precisely, in his Oklahoma drawl, why this was an asset worth giving up nearly half the company.  The WildHorse Eagle Ford position is largely contiguous, only 20% developed, and it is in the oil zone of the Eagle Ford, with 80% of its revenues from oil. This asset will enable Chesapeake to more than double its oil production by 2020 to 165,000 bbls/d. “It is absolutely a turning point,” Lawler says. Because he’s buying Wildhorse mostly with stock, the deal will help further deleverage Chesapeake’s balance sheet, while being immediately accretive to cash flow.  The geology of the acquired acreage is very similar to that of Chesapeake’s existing position in the Eagle Ford, where it has drilled 2,400 wells, commonly engineering horizontal completions 10,000 feet long. “It’s similar to what we have done, a close fit,” he said. And in a neat twist, WildHorse bought a chunk of its Eagle Ford position from Lawler’s previous employer, Anadarko Petroleum, in 2017 for $600 million. One of his top lieutenants at Chesapeake, Jason Pigott, used to run Anadarko’s Eagle Ford division.  Since taking over five years ago, Lawler has chopped and squeezed Chesapeake into a far more financially sound operation. He’s cut $12 billion in long-term debt and liabilities, has erased $10 billion in midstream and downstream commitments and removed $1 billion in annual cash costs. Lawler is careful to spread the credit around. He says he’s most proud of the employees, especially those who stuck it out: “We have been through hell.”  This operation is no longer a cult of personality devoted to executing the whims of legendarily profligate cofounder Aubrey McClendon. The heroic figure in the rise of America’s shale fracking boom, McClendon unleashed an army of “landmen” to spend tens of billions of dollars to scoop up giant swaths of empty ranchland and pasture in Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Ohio and Pennsylvania in hopes of assembling the “sweet spots” of a new generation of oil and gas fields. McClendon built an in-house drilling company rather than rely on outside contractors like so many other companies. At peak they were running 180 rigs nationwide. By the time Carl Icahn and other activist investors pushed McClendon out in 2013, Chesapeake had about $23 billion in long-term debt and obligations. The company had grown so accustomed to bringing in cash via endless rounds of debt financing and land sales that it hadn’t generated any free cash flow from operations in 10 years.  In a brief interview with Forbes on the sidelines of the Deloitte conference, Lawler insisted that despite having all this shiny new Eagle Ford acreage to play with, his ardor had not cooled one bit for drilling Chesapeake’s 250,000 acres in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming. “What we love about it is the southern portion, the hot spot. It has petrotechnical qualities for good hydrocarbon recovery. We own the majority of the acreage in that area.” He says it will generate “significant cash flow.”  It’s odd to see Chesapeake on the acquisition trail again after so many years of shedding more than $10 billion in assets, and shedding 25 operating companies, including its pipelines and drilling business. Does he regret having to sell assets? “No, those were decisions at specific points in time that were necessary for our business.” Sure, it would be nice to still have all that acreage in the Permian, he says, but he’s not that interested in dwelling on Chesapeake’s ancient history. “We’re going to focus on what we’ve accomplished, what we intend to do,” he says, not on some decision made “15 or 20 years ago that we may not agree with and don’t know why it was made.”  Does he ever doubt that maybe he’s not making the right decision with this Wildhorse deal? “No doubt,” he says. “We know we’re doing the right things.” It’s worth something that Lawler’s efforts have at least passed NGP and Carlyle’s due diligence. The company does remain on shaky financial footing, with $10 billion in long-term liabilities against against $12.7 billion in total assets, $600 million in operating income and nearly $300 million in net income for the nine months through September. Analyst William Featherstone with Credit Suisse notes that although WildHorse improves Chesapeake, the pro forma company will still be expensive and overleveraged versus its peers.  Since Lawler took the helm in June 2013, Chesapeake shares have gone from $20 to a peak of around $30 in July 2014, before their big fall with oil prices to $2.70 in 2016, (when McClendon died). Today they’re at $3.50, off 25% just since early October. “I’m not concerned about it at all,” Lawler says. He’s got confidence rooted in Chesapeake’s vast experience and expertise—having drilled more than 20,000 horizontal wells—and in the dedication of his team. “We’ve gone through a lot of rough times and we still want to drive this company forward. We want this opportunity. We were made for this.”  