It might just be seasonal. That's the opinion of a friend of mine who trades lots of different commodities. We were talking about how the price of light crude oil broke down below several important levels recently. He tracks at least a dozen markets and follows "seasonality" as well as many other types of indicators. My opinion is: well, yeah, it certainly could be seasonal forces at work -- there's no denying such factors -- but the price breakdown seems so strong and clear that it may not be "just" seasonal. The relentless down trend of the last few days and weeks seems to suggest something that might be more powerful, maybe along the lines of a global slowdown that's not yet recognized. In other words, if there's less demand for oil -- what it means when price drops -- why would that be? It's probably impossible to figure out exactly what the all the reasons are. If you're a student of price charts, it doesn't really matter once you've identified trend and support/resistance levels. Let's look at the charts for that information. Here's the monthly chart of the continuous contract for light crude oil: The long-term trend in oil is down and it has been since the pre-recession peak up near 150 in early 2008. Since then, it's been unable to move higher than that top. The direction of the line connecting that 2008 peak with the lower 2013/2014 peaks is unmistakably downward. Now take a look at the weekly chart: The uptrend line connecting the low in 2016 to the 2017 low has been broken. Oil has closed below that trend line for 2 weeks in a row now -- and it's back inside the Ichimoku cloud range. And here's the daily chart: It's that unrelenting selling, day after day, in October that's reversed the weekly trend and has reverted price direction back to the longer-term pattern seen on the monthly chart. Did all of this selling affect stocks in the energy sector? Yes, combined with the over-all weakness of stocks in general, those in the oil equity world suffered as well. Here's weekly chart of Energy Select Spider ETF, NYSE-traded: That's a tough October for stocks in the energy sector even though it looks to have begun something of a recovery as it moves into November. Overall, it's odd that the price of oil has yet to take out that 2008 high -- which was hit just before the Great Recession took down world markets. You would think that with the recovery since then and with the economic expansion of recent years that oil might have come close to the old peak from 10 years ago. Now that it's headed back down is peculiar even if it's just seasonality kicking in. I do not hold positions in these investments. No recommendations are made one way or the other. If you're an investor, you'd want to look much deeper into each of these situations. You can lose money trading or investing in stocks and other instruments. Always do your own independent research, due diligence and seek professional advice from a licensed investment advisor. 