It's surely in Russia's interest that Venezuela can keep its lights on. Russian oil firm Rosneft is a key backer of PdVSA, the state-controlled oil firm that hangs like a loose tooth in Latin America’s biggest basket-case economy. But on Friday, the bank of Russian gas firm Gazprom says there was no dark-money schemes being employed to prop up the struggling nation run by the Socialists United of Venezuela. Gazprombank was reacting to a Halloween Day announcement from a U.S. court that the bank was involved in bribery schemes that helped both them and the beleaguered oil firm PdVSA. The Prosecutor’s Office of the Southern District of Florida said Abraham Ortega, former executive director of financial planning for PdVSA, pleaded guilty to accepting bribes in exchange for granting preferences to a Russian bank and a French oil company. Ortega said he received $3 million in bribes for helping the French and $2 million for helping the Russians. Ortega also acknowledged involvement in the withdrawal scheme of $1.2 billion from PdVSA and receiving another $12 million in bribes for participating in a corruption scheme related to lending and a foreign exchange contract of a Venezuelan company. Anglo-French oil company Perenco and Russian financial firm Gazprombank were identified as the source of the bribe money, someone with knowledge of the case told Reuters reporter Alexandra Ulmer on November 1. The court never named the companies mentioned by Ortega. The Russians for sure have their hands in Venezuelan oil. Largely at the invite of the Venezuelan government, PdVSA and Gazprombrank created a joint venture in 2012 called Petrozamora. Gazprom says that Florida court materials mention a schemebetween PdVSA and a foreign joint venture that was created around 2007, the press service of Gazprombank said on Friday. The company said that in 2013 the bank “structured debt financing of capital investments and operating expenses of Petrozamora JV on market terms, without any preferences from the Venezuelan side.” Like all things Russians, Gazprombank owns a subsidiary set up to handle the South American JV called GPB Global Resources. It owns 40% of Petrozamora, according to Russian press reports. In April 2015, the National Assembly of Venezuela allowed the Venezuelan company to purchase four fields in the area of Lake Maracaibo. In 2016, Gazprombank sold 83% of GPB Global Resources for $248.4 million, but it is unclear who that buyer was.