An original version of this article said the VanEck Russia ETF was down over 50% year-to-date. That was based on an errant Yahoo! Finance chart. The ETF is down 3.91% YTD. The corrected version is below. Russia’s economy is on the rise, Vladimir Putin recently told a visiting group of German businessmen. It grew maybe 2% in the second quarter versus a year ago. Industrial production is rising, up 3% in the first three quarters. Capital investments in the first half of the year rose 3.2%. The growth of freight—a key indicator of whether or not Russians are buying and selling things across state lines—rose by 3% in eight months, and retail trade is up nearly 3% over the same period. Not bad. The only problem is that Russia is in the crosshairs of the U.S. Investor sentiment is on the rocks. The VanEck Russia (RSX) fund is now down 4% year to date, better than most emerging markets. It’s commendable that the country has clawed its way out of a recession while dealing with ever-increasing sanctions and rumors of sanctions by the U.S. The recent World Bank Doing Business Report ranks Russia behind Kazakhstan at number 31 out of 190 countries reviewed by the Bank. KZ is number 28. Investors dumped Russian stocks on October 25 when the U.S. left a years-old missiles treaty. Then there is the constant overhang of more sanctions, with Russian banks like Sberbank and VTB Bank possibly having their offices seized in New York. “The question of whether there will be sanctions or no sanctions is a guessing game,” Alexander Morozov, Sberbank's deputy chairman said during a conference call on Thursday. “We are ready for any new challenges that may occur, and we will respond accordingly. Today, we feel absolutely confident and calm,” he said. Sberbank shares are down a little over 18% this year. See: Brotherly Heist: A Sad Story Of A Failed Russian Bank — Forbes Banks that may face restrictions on dollar purchases, transactions and asset freezes in the U.S. include Sberbank, VTB, Bank of Moscow, Gazprombank, Russian Agricultural Bank, Promsvyazbank and Vnesheconombank, which is the country's large development bank. Equities are not under threat of sanction so the VanEck Russia fund may be a vast overshoot. For now, Russia is the worst performing of the big emerging markets. On a day when emerging markets as measured by the MSCI Emerging Markets Index are up by 2.8%, Russia’s two biggest ETFs are barely up 0.8%. Even China, which faces even more ire from Trump than the Russians do, are in better shape. China is also in a bear market, but its economy is more diverse than the Russian economy. The A-shares are up over 3% today. Fundamentally, the economy is busy creating national and regional powerhouses in robotics and telecommunications systems, something Russia has failed to do over and over again. With the exception of their big oil and gas copanies—nearly all of them sanctioned—Russia's most well-known global name is cybersecurity software firm Kaspersky Lab, owned by Forbes-listed billionaire Eugene Kaspersky. Yandex, one of Russia’s best publicly traded tech companies, is down 9.9% this year, which is better than the major Chinese tech companies, including Baidu. Over the last five years, Russian GDP has shrunk by a little more than a trillion dollars. Last year, Russia’s economy was worth $1.6 trillion, less than India ($1.9 trillion) and Brazil ($2.05 trillion). It's also around 14 times smaller than the Chinese economy. Putin will be the first to say that he is not an economic expert. His forte is the foreign intrigue of national sescurity and keeping Russia’s vast landmass together, from European-style Moscow and St. Petersburg, to the far away city of Vladivostok, which is light years away from Russia’s European heritage. Last month, on October 16, Putin said the economy was not exactly booming, but despite all the headwinds it is in “generally good shape.” “On the key parameters, the picture in the Russian economy is generally positive,” he said. If fundamentals are improving, investors may find their way into Russia by ignoring the major banks and looking elsewhere. But even if they were to go into the VanEck Small Cap Russia (RSXJ) fund they would be underperforming every other major emerging market. RSXJ is in a bear market. Until sanctions are lifted and cooler heads prevail, Russia is stuck facing Washington headwinds. Volatility, where investors can get in and out in a hurry and make (or lose) some real money, will all depend on oil prices which have helped Russian stocks so far this year. 