Chicago-based United airlines is cutting the number of flight attendants that it staffs on some international flights. To make up for the missing crewmember, the airline plans to plate some meals prior to loading the aircraft so that onboard staff have fewer responsibilities. News of the cuts was shared with the flight attendants union early this week by John Slater, United’s senior vice president for inflight services; Bloomberg and Flightglobal picked up the news shortly after. Service cuts will primary affect the airline's international business class service, which is branded as Polaris, though some cuts will also come to international economy cabins. "You’ve already seen us make changes to streamline the Polaris service flow and address feedback from our customers that they value rest above all else," Slater shared in the memorandum to staff. "Those were important steps, but there is more work to do," he continued.    Despite news of the cuts, premium service on the carrier shouldn't suffer much compared to competing products. According to Slater, United's staffing levels moving forward put it on par with both American and Delta, the carrier's chief rivals. What passengers may notice, however, is the muted service now onboard on international United flights relative to when Polaris originally launched. At launch in 2016, Polaris was billed as a premium international cabin on par with worldwide carriers like Emirates and Singapore Airlines; service included wine tastings, lavish bedding and routine pampering. Over the following months, however, United made significant reductions to the product, including cuts to meal service and bedding options. Pressure to cut costs is likely coming from the airline's plans for expansion despite tightening market conditions. Earlier this year, the carrier confirmed that it was expanding capacity and adding routes in an effort to soak up seats from competitors. While that expansion has boosted profits into the third quarter, the higher operating costs (led by oil prices that are up 40% since last year) may be forcing the carrier to look for areas in which to save cash. Staffing levels relative to competing carriers was apparently one of those areas. Service cuts will begin on February 1st of 2019 and will come to a portion the carrier's long haul 767, 777 and 787-operated routes. The economy cabin of the carrier's international 757 fleet will also lose a flight attendant at that time. 