One of the leading indicators foreshadowing the next recession is a break in market correlations. Correlations are inherently unstable and when economic and political uncertainty rises, using static correlation analysis is not adequate and investors need to understand the forward looking underlying thematic drivers of correlations. Investing is even harder today because the current environment of tightening global liquidity and late economic cycle is a once in a decade phenomenon. In a nutshell both the long market beta trade and risk parity trade are coming to an end and investors seek diversification and downside protection. The exact timing of the next recession is hard to pinpoint, and our models indicate a major market downturn within a 18 to 24 month horizon (2020). In the interim, markets will be choppy and corrections and bounce backs like what we saw in February and October will be common. For example, in the upcoming environment, strategies relying on negative bond/equity correlations and carry strategies that rely on liquidity expansion stop working. At the end of an economic expansion, the resilience to poor economic news and political headlines diminishes as valuations get compressed by rising yields and increasing inflation. The bond market behavior and its contagion are common with late cycle dynamics, however the reaction to higher yields is not uniform. At Marto, we adhere to the principle that the critical factor that matters to investment in foreign FX markets is real and not nominal yields. The fundamental factor external to these economies is the lending of US dollars outside of the US and its cost. The level of real yields also matters for US equities and high yield, but this correlation is unstable and what matters more for equities is the shape of the yield curve. Equities can continue to be supported for some time in a strong growth cycle, even if nominal yields rise, assuming real yields don’t increase significantly, and the term premium stays compressed. However, as the market transitions into a late cycle, the curve steepens, and the 10-year real yields inch closer to the critical threshold of about 1.5% (another 40-50 bps from current levels), it is likely to undermine valuations and can derail the equity market. As the economic cycle transitions, we perform the following analysis to map the medium-term outlook for equities, credit and FX: Analyzing correlations with real yields and the term premium in different economic cycles Performance of different asset classes in the medium-term is distinguished by their correlations in different growth, real rate and inflation scenarios. We loosely define the four economic cycles as follows: The following chart illustrates that equity and high yield/real yield correlations are unstable and are generally low. Equities and high yield can rally in a strong growth cycle even if nominal and real rates increase from low levels. However, as the market transitions to a late cycle, the positive correlation between real yields and equity returns declines and becomes negative for large moves (more than 1.5 standard deviations). DXY and emerging market FX, as well as credit, exhibits a clear negative (DXY positive) correlation with real yields, but in late cycle this correlation breaks. Some emerging market assets become resilient to a further rise in US yields and can rally selectively, as a late cycle rally is often accompanied by rising commodity prices. This is similar to what happened in the 2004/2007 period. What matters for FX broadly is not the long end of the US curve, but the short rate differentials that are determined by monetary policy divergence. This chart clearly illustrates that for the S&P index, the shape of the curve matters in all economic cycles. Late stage peak yields historically coincided with a flat curve, so 3.5-4% yields require Fed funds around 3.5-4%. Current Fed dots peak at 3.375% in 2020 and Fed fund forwards imply 2.85% in 2020. So, the market must adjust further before the peak in rates is reached. The scenario of 3.5-4% nominal yields should coincide with real yields of 1.5%+, which will be destabilizing for risky assets, especially equities. We believe that the real rates level that will trigger a recession is likely to be lower this cycle. Real rate close to 1.5% (another 40-50 bps higher) will start undermining US equities, slowing earnings growth and lead to a prolonged equity market sell-off. The chart below shows that the spread between the real earning yield and bond real yields is currently about 1.6%, significantly below its long-term average. This still has room to compress a bit further. Our models highlight that within some sectors, the earnings yield has reached unattractive levels and is contributing negatively to the signal. These sectors are Energy, Technology and Consumer Discretionary. We see a non-trivial probability of a recession sometime in 2019 or early 2020 with the likeliest cause being Fed overtightening against a backdrop of mediocre global growth outlook. Excessive tightening by the Fed leads to about half of the economic recessions and represents a real recession risk today as the possibility of a policy mistake is high in the post-financial crisis era. There is clearly a high degree of uncertainty amongst the FOMC members, regarding the levels of the neutral rate and NAIRU complicating policy decisions. Taking cues from the FOMC, the rate market may sell-off ahead of the fundamentals risking the slowdown. The market can be caught off guard if US economic activity, while so far well insulated from global economic shocks and trade tensions, drops materially. One can draw a parallel to the early 1990s recessions, which were caused by a combination of the 1990 oil price shock, debt accumulation of the 1980s, and very high interest rates. The current economic cycle has some of these elements. History shows that housing busts tend to cause prolonged recessions, which are usually preceded by a large run-up in household debt. The US and Eurozone household indebtedness has declined by over 20% since the peak in the global financial crisis and doesn’t represent a systemic risk today. The January 2012 McKinsey study, “Debt and Deleveraging: Uneven Progress on the Path to Growth”, analyzes historical episodes of debt reductions, like Sweden and Finland in the early 1990s, and concludes that private debt needs to decline approximately 30% before economic recovery takes off. During this period, government debt can continue to grow and will start to decline in a second phase once growth rebounds. In the US, the crisis which started in the private sector, has shifted to the government balance sheet. The high government debt levels will constrain the government’s ability to enact fiscal stimulus to support growth. Consistent with history, the likely outcome of these scenarios is stagflation with a series of competitive devaluations. US and European households have deleveraged over the past years, but this has occurred against a backdrop of rising debt in other jurisdictions, namely Canada and Korea. Here, household debt levels exceed US levels attained pre-crisis and pose a risk of an economic slowdown for these countries. Additionally, corporate debt levels are extremely high. The ability to enact fiscal stimulus in the US to support growth will be constrained by already high government debt levels. There appears some room for fiscal stimulus in the Eurozone, where the government debt has been on a downward trajectory since 2014. In China, the authorities are likely to loosen fiscal policy to revive infrastructure and maintain stability against an overall growth declining trend. Despite a significant increase in government debt levels, stemming from ongoing corporate deleveraging and a transfer of liabilities to the sovereign balance sheet, a wide measure of the government debt (counting both general and local government), is still below 70%. The best risk reward in the developed market rates is in the US curve steepeners rather than outright rate shorts. Our 1.5-2 year forward US 2s10 and 5s30s curve steepener should perform well if the US economic activity starts to deteriorate and the Fed tilts more dovish as a result. This is likely to happen against a deteriorating fiscal backdrop and high debt/GDP levels, which will require a higher term premium. The DXY is likely to peak over the next 1-2 months and emerging market FX performance is likely to be differentiated, consistent with previous late cycles. The flat US curve slope leads to a weaker USD with a lag. Oil and other commodity-related FX can benefit in the late stage of the rally, favoring commodity FX, such as the Russian ruble. The recovery broadening to other jurisdictions, especially in the Eurozone, will be supportive to the EUR along with a decline in the Italian political risk. Non-Japan Asia FX is likely to remain under pressure with the Chinese renminbi and Korean won continuing to depreciate. Equities can decouple from rising yields in the late cycle and we expect them to recover from the recent sell-off. However, we see significant risks emerging from declining equity risk premia and a potential slowdown in US growth momentum. Within equity sectors, we are short Utilities and Technology versus the index.