It is an often-quoted industry cliché that the oil and gas sector and market volatility are joined at the hip. But even investors with a high risk appetite crave at least a modicum of stability. The recent price range of Brent futures has provided that stability. Admittedly, the benchmark has fluctuated wildly over the last 18 months, but that fluctuation has been in the $60-$80 per barrel range. Various market permutations and influences in recent months, including the global supply and demand dynamic and geopolitical risk, have failed to cause a lasting breach of the $80 ceiling, despite exaggerated predictions of a spike to $100. Or for that matter a prolonged drop below the $60 floor. For many Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) power-brokers with low carbon and regional energy diversification targets, that is a range they could work with. Policymakers have the comfort of knowing that demand for oil will continue to grow over the coming decades. Studies by the International Energy Agency support this claim, with the think-tank's Executive Director Dr Fatih Birol opining that even if one in every two cars is electric, crude demand would keep growing. That's because much of it is driven not by automobiles but by aviation and petrochemicals. Market evidence also suggests foreign investors are warming up to a benign oil price climate. For instance, KPMG's recent oil and gas CEO outlook suggests industry bosses are setting their sights on growth opportunities, with 85% very confident or confident on industry growth, and 88% very confident or confident on corporate growth prospects. As part of their growth strategies, 83% of energy bosses polled by KPMG also anticipate a "moderate to high appetite for M&A activity" over the next three years, largely driven by the need to reduce costs through synergies/economies of scale; a speedy transformation of business models; increased market share; and low interest rates. Regina Mayor, Global Sector Head, Energy and Natural Resources, KPMG, says higher oil prices are playing a significant role in driving a more positive sentiment across the industry. "Executives are really honing in on ways they can improve internal efficiencies through strategic M&A moves and the use of robotics, AI and other means of digitalization across the industry." Among GCC economies, many in the investor community see the United Arab Emirates (UAE) as their preferred investment destination. Here's a telling statistic – 25% of companies on the Forbes Global 2000 list of leading companies in the world have adopted the UAE as their regional hub for Middle East and North Africa. This roster includes pretty much a veritable 'who's who' of the oil and gas business with most entrants clustered around Abu Dhabi and Dubai. Additionally, UNCTAD's recent World Investment Report found the UAE topped all Arab economies in terms of foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows. FDI inflows into the country increased by DHS71 billion ($19.33 billion) in 2016-17, with UNCTAD estimating accumulated inflows at DHS473 billion, placing the UAE as 30th globally in terms of FDI. Tie-in the Forbes list to UNCTAD's research, and it offers ample proof about a conducive investment climate in the Emirates. As highlighted at the recently concluded 2018 Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition and Conference (ADIPEC), smart services, free trade-zones, unrestricted cash transfers and a diversified economy are some of the incentives oil and gas companies in the UAE look to benefit from. The policy stance was reaffirmed by Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, Chief Executive Officer of state-owned energy champion Abu Dhabi National Oil Company at the event. Bahrain and Oman have also adopted similar policy stances, either wholly or partially, and many GCC members are, or will be, following suit. But unsurprisingly, aggregated survey data from multiple sources suggest the UAE pulled 40% of all global FDI inflows into the Arab world last year, a quarter of which went to the oil and gas sector. As the competition for FDI dollars rises, the concept of 'Solar Arabia' bankrolled by petrodollars is gaining currency. The theme first promoted by policymakers in Saudi Arabia has actually been adopted in earnest by the UAE government, and is the subject of much navel gazing within the GCC. For instance, the UAE is in the process of building the world's largest single-site solar thermal plant that will combine a central tower and parabolic trough technology to harvest energy from the sun, store it in molten salt and produce steam to generate power. The lead sponsor – Dubai Electricity & Water Authority – is aiming for 700MW. It claims the plant will deliver electricity 24 hours a day at a levelized tariff of 7.3 cents per kilowatt-hour, which can "compete with fossil fuel generated power without subsidies." It demonstrates policymakers' willpower as well as international and regional collaboration, with both China's Silk Road Fund and Saudi Arabia's ACWA Power Barka being stakeholders in the project. A cursory look around Dubai and Abu Dhabi would reveal both emirates increasingly peppered with solar panels and arrays, and multiple renewable energy projects, a matter of years after the UAE ditched fuel subsidies during the oil price slump of 2015-16. The rest of the region could certainly benefit from a similar technology-first, diversified and liberal-economics approach to encourage FDI, as the UAE marches on in the eyes of foreign investors. 