Wow! Natural gas prices have hit $4/Mcf for the first time since, well, a few days in January, but they have been at or near $3/Mcf for most of the past five years, so the possibility of a “recovery” in prices is gladdening hearts in the producing industry (“recovery” is an industry term meaning “they were lower than I like”). The fact that inventories have been below normal for the past year without moving prices has caused much gnashing of teeth and confounded the price bulls, who are now wearing out the hashtag #toldyouso. North American natural gas may be the purest free market for commodities in the world, where supply and demand face a number of restrictions and/or regulations, but ultimately the market balance is set by economics. Which is not the same as saying they are certain or that prices are predictable.    As is so often the case, the causal factors are crucial. For some time, it has been argued that prices were below breakeven costs and must rise, that shale gas decline rates were so high production couldn’t be maintained, that Wall Street would force drillers to be more conservative in their investments, and/or that LNG exports would drive prices up. Only one of these appears relevant. Interestingly, the tighter inventory situation can be explained primarily by the sudden surge in LNG exports. Although they constitute only one-third of total exports (see figure below), they have increased sharply in the past two years as new export terminals have come online and oil prices have made them attractive. This is because the global natural gas market is not competitive but an oligopoly where a handful of exporting nations have long indexed gas prices to oil prices based on their relative heat content. When supply problems in Iraq, Iran, Libya, Venezuela etc. sent oil prices (and LNG prices) up while U.S. gas prices remained moderate, LNG exports appeared particularly attractive. (The shutdown of Japanese nuclear power plants after the Fukushima incident also sent LNG prices up temporarily, as I warned in the Oil & Gas Journal in 2013.) And in fact, the tightness in gas inventories appears to be attributable primarily due to the surge in LNG exports, as the figure below shows. This definitely supports earlier arguments that LNG exports might raise domestic prices, but it is crucial to realize that this is a short-term market trend. Several things could change the balance, and fairly quickly. First, natural gas demand still remains heavily affected by winter weather. The figure below shows that the range of residential natural gas demand during winters (November through March) is more than 1 Tcf (from 2010-2017), which is much more than the roughly 400 Bcf shortfall in inventories. If, as is projected, the winter is mild then natural gas consumption could be low enough to restore inventories to normal levels. Needless to say, long-term weather forecasts are imprecise and uncertain; should weather be colder than normal, the market is likely to tighten more, and prices could top $5/Mcf for an extended period. The other wild card is demand for American LNG overseas if U.S. gas prices are rising and world oil and gas prices are weak. That will be the subject of the next column. 