President Trump released his authoritative statement on Saudi Arabia and the murder of Washington Post opinion contributor Jamal Khashoggi. It came just two days before Thanksgiving, when Americans are focused on themselves and their families. But you can be sure that Riyadh is paying attention. Let’s look at what President Trump said: But then President Trump also said some things that probably made leaders in Riyadh nervous. Hot takes from the press are saying that President Trump is letting Saudi Arabia off the hook, but that's not what's happening here . In an absolute monarchy like Saudi Arabia the purpose of the government is to support the king (and in this case the crown prince as well). President Trump showed support for Saudi Arabia, but not for the current royal leadership . The top levels of Saudi leadership were looking for support for the king and the crown prince. That's not what they got at all. The problem for the royal leadership is that both domestically and globally, they were presenting an image that the crown prince was vital to the relationship with the United States. Trump just said that isn't the case. So how might Saudi leadership respond? The kingdom cannot afford to react as it did when it was criticized by Germany in 2017 or by Canada this past summer. In both of those cases, Saudi Arabia halted diplomatic relations and announced economic decisions designed to show its discontent. That won’t work against the US. Saudi Arabia needs the US economically and geopolitically too much. If Saudi leadership is unhappy about the lack of real support from President Trump its best option is to try to raise oil prices at the coming OPEC meeting in early December. But Saudi Arabia wanted to cut production anyways and the recent drops in oil prices only help Saudi Arabia with this goal. But the more important question is, should Saudi Arabia react? The world is used to Saudi leaders taking every geopolitical slight so seriously. (See Germany and Canada). Saudi Arabia would do best to ignore any slights and proceed with its own business. Then perhaps Saudi Arabia can do some things to surprise its critics, like release dissidents, work with Israel, make peace with Qatar, or show movement towards peace in Yemen. 