OPEC and its partner, Russia, have been eager to raise the price of oil in recent weeks. The price of the global benchmark, Brent, has dropped over 20% since the beginning of October. As a result, Saudi Arabia, Russia and, their oil producing friends would like to stabilize oil at a higher price. They met briefly this past weekend and they will meet for a larger meeting to set their cartel's oil policy at the beginning of December. OPEC is a self-described cartel and along with Russia, it controls more than 2/5 of global oil production. But President Trump has his twitter account and he is not afraid to use it. The President wants low oil prices because that is good for him politically and it is good for American consumers. Amid a minor rally in oil prices yesterday, the President dealt a blow to Saudi Arabia and Russia's attempt to push up oil prices . Oil prices had started to rise on news that Saudi Arabia's oil exports will likely drop by about 500,000 barrels per day in December. Almost immediately after the President tweeted, oil prices fell and fell and fell . As a result, the oil market continues its longest decline since 1984. Prices have dropped for a record 11 straight days. There are other factors, of course, such as the expectation that oil demand will grow at a slower pace in 2019, the booming shale oil industry, the Iran sanctions waivers and global economic uncertainty. However, the timing of yesterday's decline proves that the market reacted forcefully to the President's tweet. The President has been using twitter and political rallies to publicly pressure Saudi Arabia and OPEC to produce more oil and lower prices since June. Rumors are that White House economic advisor Larry Kudlow recently discussed with Trump the consequences of tweeting about the oil market, but it seems to be working for Trump so far. By the end of business on Tuesday, the price of the American benchmark, WTI, lost over 8%. Prices could still rally before the end of the year, but with WTI now at $55 per barrel, the next worry for President Trump should be whether such low prices will hurt the U.S. shale oil industry.