For those who think – or hope -- we’re nearing the end of the age of oil, look no further than today’s media preoccupation with whether or not Saudi Arabia might cut production to manipulate price upwards. The enduring issue, however, is not tomorrow’s oil price but why that price matters, and why oil’s oligarchs can still manipulate markets, and for how long. Consider the state of play. Without fanfare, a month ago the world passed a milestone. Global petroleum production blew past 100 million barrels per day. For context: that is more energy every day than all the wind farms on the planet generate in two months. It also means that the world is over-supplied with oil; hence the recent price rout and the Saudi eagerness to nudge prices back up by tightening their spigot, and President Trump’s voluble objection to that. It is axiomatic that oversupplying a commodity collapses prices. With petroleum, what’s at stake is consequential. Oil at $50 instead of, say, $80 per barrel represents a $1 trillion loss each year for producers, and conversely that much in savings for consumers. That asymmetry creates obvious tensions. But the reason for today’s state of oversupply comes from a new energy reality that is still poorly understood.    The United States was responsible for two-thirds of the growth in global oil output over the past five years. And America now exports – the word “export” was utterly absent from the U.S. energy lexicon for a half-century -- more petroleum than all but three of OPEC’s 12 members. Absent U.S. shale production, the world today would be under, not oversupplied and markets would be reaching for $100 oil instead of sinking. And, for the record, the supply over-hang is far greater than the additional ‘surplus’ now forecast to come from slightly slower global economic growth over the next year or so. But before going on, one must address an obvious elephant in the room: the idea that the Tesla-inspired electric vehicle (EV) revolution is a factor. Obviously there are a lot more electric cars in the world today compared to 2010, the year Elon Musk announced he’d produce cars in Freemont, CA. However, each day, all the EVs on the planet displace just two minutes worth of global oil production. (Also, whether for virtue signaling or health benefits, the two millennial enthusiasms, bicycling and electric scooters, displace even less oil.) So, if you’re a forecaster in Saudi Arabia, you already have the answer to the big question on the table before the previous price rout that started in mid-2014. The question then wasn’t how many EVs would get built, but whether shale drillers and their financiers could survive a sustained price drubbing. Back then, the budding shale revolution caught everyone by surprise and oversupplied markets. As that triggered prices to start to sink from the nearly $120 peak in June 2014, the Saudis piled on by adding yet more supply to the market. One can only assume the Saudi action was intended to drive prices even lower; oil was dragged briefly below $30 by January 2016. A number of high-profile forecasters and hedge fund managers (David Einhorn at Greenlight Capital amongst them) boisterously bet that shale was a one-time phenomenon dependent on high prices. They lost. Here’s what happened: Compared to 2010, the United States now produces more than twice as much oil with roughly the same number of drilling rigs and the same number of people. Put inversely: the average cost to produce a barrel has dropped more than two fold. Going forward, the next big question for OPEC is how quickly the entire oil industry, not just U.S. shale, enters a new phase of gains in production efficiencies: call it Shale 2.0. Productivity gains to date have been dominated by old-fashioned experience and the operational efficiencies seen in every industry. The next gains will come from an entirely new phenomenon sweeping through all industries. Robots, both automation of physical things, and virtual robots in the form of artificial intelligence and machine-learning, are about to accelerate across industries. The world of hydrocarbons won’t be left behind. Organizations from Morgan Stanley to the International Energy Agency (IEA) have noted the obvious: petroleum is the least digitalized industrial sector. As we’ve written on these ‘pages’ before, the ‘Amazon effect’ is just beginning for oil and gas. Realistic estimations, not Silicon Valley hype, that software can quickly deliver 5 to 10% gains in production efficacy may seem modest, but this is where the law of large numbers comes into play. Consider first, for example, that a 10% bump up in wind turbine efficacy (something vendors eagerly brag about), doesn’t add bupkis to total world energy supply: 10% more global wind is less energy than comes from a couple of hours of daily production in the Texas Permian shale basin alone. Meanwhile a 10% bump in global oil output would flood the market with the equivalent of adding another Saudi Arabia. It bears noting that such an increase in production comes at the cost of software not hardware: i.e., at near trivial marginal costs. But in the industrial world of “dirty jobs,” adults are infamously reluctant to adopt new stuff. That reluctance comes not from being technological troglodytes, but from a realistic appreciation for just how hard it is to automate big atom-moving machinery as opposed to bit-moving hardware. Caution also derives from the fact that industrial hardware, if operated improperly, doesn’t lead to an inconvenient reboot but can destroy expensive equipment, or cause serious physical injury. None of this is news to any serious industrial automation company. What will now force a more rapid adoption of digital technologies is the expanding shortage of skilled labor across all industrial sectors, one that is particularly acute in oil and gas. Apprenticeships, re-skilling programs, and restoring the social acceptability of “vocational skills” will help, but all that combined can’t fill the skills gap. Consequently, employers are increasingly willing to explore and deploy software and automation to amplify the capabilities of the employees they have and can find. How much difference can software make? If emerging technologies enable U.S. shale operators to merely replicate the productivity that was already gained using yesterday’s tools, the marginal cost of producing a barrel in America will drop in half again. That price point invades the low-cost territory that has long been the sole province of Saudi Arabia. Unsurprisingly then, recent analyses from the likes of the IEA and Goldman Sachs predict the digitalization of oil and gas will unlock trillions of dollars in value. Of course digitalization doesn’t apply only to onshore shale but also to offshore deep-water rigs and “conventional” wells. The latter two domains are still where 80% of non-OPEC oil is produced. But for commodities, it is the cost of the next marginal unit of production that swings the meter on prices. It is an open secret that forecasters – from Riyadh and Moscow to Houston and Manhattan -- have failed to predict the dynamics of the ten-year-old American shale revolution. Energy analysts are going to have to revise their theories of “price discovery” with a better understanding of the shale oil market where we find new features in terms of the velocity and volume of production, and the variety of players -- those are the same three “Vs” it bears noting that are used to describe the features of big data that are so impactful. Where will all this take oil prices? Well, the EIA’s latest unhelpful forecast has a 95% confidence that the price will be between $40 and $110 a barrel in 2020. That spread represents more than $2 trillion a year in wealth moving in one direction or the other. For a long time, useful forecasts as to which end of the range oil prices will land have depended on accurately predicting two variables: marginal new demand from global economic growth, and marginal new supply based on what the Saudi ‘hand’ would do with the OPEC spigot. Now there is the third variable of America’s vibrant and seemingly chaotic petroleum industry. Since, in America, there is no oligarch’s hand on the shale spigot, we’re cast into the land of guessing what the “invisible hand” of the market will do. And now that guessing game will be further muddied by inscrutable robot ‘hands’.<> 