According to the latest U.S. Census Bureau data, the U.S. trade deficit will almost certainly set a record in 2018 for the first time in 12 years . It's been a remarkable run without a deficit. To provide context, prior to 2006, the last record-setting year, the United States had set a record 11 of the previous 12 years. It is also not without irony that the run of years without a deficit would come to an end under President Trump. Trump, first as a candidate and since as president, has complained loudly and vociferously about how other countries, particularly but not exclusively China, have taken advantage of the United States, leading to large trade deficits. Truth be told, little of this is within Trump’s control. There are at least three primary factors: First, the trade war with China is having an effect, albeit a limited one. This is partially within the president’s control, of course. While U.S. oil exports have dropped to zero for two straight months after topping a record-setting $1 billion in June, while soybean exports tumbled more than 90% in August, and while motor vehicle exports in September were the lowest they had been in 31 months, U.S. purchases of cellphones, clothing, furniture and other products have not measurably slowed, despite Trump’s tariffs. So far this year, through September, U.S. exports to China have increased 2.58% while imports are up 7.9%. Second, generally resurgent, if erratic, oil prices. Trump has nothing to do with this, at least directly. Oil is almost always the nation’s first- and sometimes second-ranked import by value, as it is now that oil prices have, with recent highs, doubled from lows hit only a couple of years ago. That effect is muted, however, since the United States now exports so much oil, a change made possible by the rise of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, and an Obama-era change that reversed four decades of U.S. policy severely limiting exports in reaction to the 1973 oil Arab oil embargo. (My more senior readers will remember those gas lines.) In the month of September, oil was the nation’s third most valuable export. The value of oil exports has grown more than 150% the last two years. Third, and most importantly, the United States economy is strong, and both consumers and businesses are spending. Trump can certainly lay claim to the strengthening economy, as presidents do, though the expansion, one of the longest in U.S. history, predates his administration. And therein lies the paradox. If Trump wants to really cut the deficit, he probably would have the most luck if he could drive the economy off a cliff. That’s because trade deficits generally increase when the economy is doing well and decrease when it is doing poorly. For example, while the deficit has generally increased over the course of the last decade, it tumbled mightily in 2009, at the bottom of the global recession, from $816.20 billion to $503.58 billion. At the same time that the United States will set a record for its trade deficit, it will also top $4 trillion in total trade for the first time, as I have written previously, and top records for total exports and total imports. It will also be the first time in 12 years that the United States has set a record for all four in one year.