How quickly things can change in oil markets. A month ago the industry was fixated on Iran sanctions, possible supply shortages and a lack of global spare production capacity -- issues that drove benchmark Brent oil prices over $86 a barrel in early October. Fast forward to now: Brent is down 20% to around $66 a barrel while US benchmark West Texas Intermediate (WTI) is at about $56 a barrel. Saudi Arabia is calling for 1 million barrels per day of production cuts from its OPEC peers and non-OPEC allies, led by Russia, from 2019. So what’s changed? A lot. A confluence of supply, demand and geopolitical events, as well as rapidly shifting market sentiment, have confounded oil traders and complicated the outlook for crude. The International Energy Agency, the watchdog for OECD consuming nations, now forecasts a 2 million barrels a day supply surplus in the first half of 2019 if the status quo holds, as earlier supply shortage fears have reversed. OPEC sees a 1.5 million barrels per day overhang, prompting proposals from members for cuts of up to 1.4 million barrels a day beginning on January 1.    Bears are lurking across the market. Output has been surging to record highs in the US and Russia, while swing producer Saudi Arabia has also quickly ramped up production following the easing of the OPEC/non-OPEC production cut deal in June. Meanwhile, U.S, vows to take Iran’s oil exports to zero have not materialized. The Trump administration has said it will take a “gradual” approach to sanctions enforcement, issuing temporary waivers to Tehran’s most important customers including China, India and Turkey, to avoid shocking oil markets and driving up prices. One has to wonder if Trump pulled a fast one on Saudi Arabia, promising to eliminate Iranian exports completely to get the kingdom to increase its output sharply, while knowing all along that the US would allow Iran to keep exporting over 1 million barrels a day to keep a lid on prices ahead of the November 6 midterm elections. As I’ve said before, Trump is one of the most critical players in oil markets. After oil prices seemed to stabilize following Saudi Arabia’s proposal to cut production, the President tweeted that “hopefully” the kingdom and OPEC would not follow through on the idea because oil prices should be “much lower based on supply!” That message, along with Russia’s hesitation about cutting its production, has been enough to keep oil depressed -- despite Saudi Arabia’s suggestion that it will reduce output by 500,000 barrels a day in December due to lower demand for its oil. But is demand really at risk of faltering, or does Riyadh want higher prices? Spot oil traders report that demand in China, the fulcrum of global oil demand growth, looks robust through year-end, and Chinese refineries ran near record levels in October after peaking in September. The story is the same in India, another critical component of demand growth. And lower oil prices should only strengthen demand. The IEA thinks oil demand forecasts remain “solid” with growth of 1.3 million barrels a day in 2018 and 1.4 million barrels a day in 2019, despite acknowledging macroeconomic concerns such as the US-China trade war and depreciating currencies in several developing economies, which makes buying dollar-denominated crude more expensive. Trump again will factor heavily in how global economic growth -- and thus oil demand -- as well as market sentiment, plays out through trade negotiations with China. The President could also make good on his promise to bring Iran to its knees next May when sanctions waivers are up for renewal. Even if Saudi Arabia gets a production cut deal in Vienna next month, as many expect, Riyadh and its partners still stand to lose considerable market share to oil producers in the US, where output is expected to surge past 12 million barrels a day in 2019. Don’t expect $55 WTI to stunt US shale producers’ growth. The sector has proven its resilience time and again, having driven breakeven prices to $40 a barrel or lower in the aftermath of the 2014 price collapse. At $55 a barrel, consultancy Rystad Energy still expects US production to rise above 15 million barrels a day by 2025. Besides, US producers look well protected from potentially lower oil prices next year after hedging considerable 2019 production when prices surpassed $80 a barrel earlier this year. Indeed, one of the under-reported stories of this price plunge is the role of the banks and financial houses who took the other side of those bets with US producers. They have contributed by selling crude futures to manage the risk they incurred from producers’ hedging programs in a falling market, intensifying the sell-off. 