Oil Prices Crude oil ended Friday with its 10th straight session of losses. According to CNBC's commentators, a losing streak not seen in more than 34 years. The collapse in prices exhibits a reversal from last month, when crude futures had hit nearly four-year highs on the prospect of potential shortages driven by U.S. sanctions on Iran. There are two primary drivers behind the price of oil collapsing. There has been an increase in output and there is the potential for weakening demand on the possibility of slower economic growth in 2019. Forecast by some economist for slower global economic growth and rising US interest rates are the genesis behind the prediction of lower demand for oil in 2019. The risk of slower economic growth, combined with the US now pumping more oil than Russia and Saudi Arabia, puts downward pressure on the commodity. Just to keep it in perspective, the firmer oil prices of 2018 can be attributed to about two dozen exporting nations capping their output in 2017 in a bid to drain a global crude glut. However, in June of this year, many countries agreed to restore some of that output and have been pumping oil at an accelerated rate. Many professionals recognize this catalyst as the key factor taking oil down. Lower Oil Prices Can Be Good News For Airlines The recent revenue performance and increased passenger traffic for many airlines has been quite strong. Revenues for many airlines were good because of rising demand, price increases in air fares and upsurges in ancillary fees. Despite higher oil prices in 2018, the strong travel demand and price hikes did help to offset higher fuel costs. Regardless of the great top line growth, the one thorn really sticking it to many airline companies was the rising cost of fuel during 2018. This did have a negative impact on earnings. Notably, it looked like it was going to get worse as crude oil was testing the $75-a-barrel threshold during September and early October. In fact, investors were projecting there would be a big hit to airline profit margins via higher fuel costs and airline stocks were getting slammed in late September. This picture has now dramatically changed, along with investor sentiment towards the industry, on the back of a correction in oil. Understandably, if there was lower economic growth in 2019, there could be an impact air traffic travel, but the prevailing belief is most of the decline in oil can be attributed to countries increasing output and supply. CressCap is focusing on two airlines that look on our methodology: Spirit and Delta Airlines. The foundation of our recommendations is to identify companies that perform best and worst on the collective basis of value, growth, EPS revisions, profitability, and LT momentum. The CressCap systematic trading model gathers data daily on 6,500 companies globally and assigns academic grades (A - F) for each financial metric. These grades are scored relative to its region/sector. SPIRIT (SAVE) For the third quarter 2018, Spirit's total operating revenue was $904.3 million, an increase of 31.6 percent compared to the third quarter 2017, driven by a 24.6 percent increase in passenger segments and a 3.0 percent increase in operating yields. Total operating revenue per available seat mile ("TRASM") for the third quarter 2018 increased 5.5 percent compared to the same period last year. The company has an overall CressCap A+ rating and holds an equivalent grade for EPS Revisions and Momentum. The company just reported Q3 and beat on expectations for both EPS and Revenue. EPS Revisions are increasing favorable as in the last 90 days analysts increased estimates by 17% and 12.4% for FY ’18 and FY ’19 respectively. Spirit’s Chief Executive Officer, Robert Fornaro, stated “over the last three years we have diversified our network, increased density in several key markets to allow for increased connectivity, and culled many of our under-performing routes. We are just beginning to reap the benefit of all these changes and are excited about the potential to leverage them further.” DELTA (DAL) Delta has an overall CressCap A rating and holds an equivalent grade for Growth, Profitability and Momentum. The stock also exhibits a good value compared to many other airline stocks with very attractive P/E and EV/EBITDA multiples 10.2x and 5.1x respectively. The company also just reported Q3 and beat on expectations for both EPS and Revenue. The company released 2nd quarter results in early October. The company stated, their adjusted operating revenue of $11.8 billion for the September quarter improved eight percent versus the prior year. This quarterly revenue result marked a record for Delta. The company highlighted the advance was driven by improvements across Delta’s business, including a nearly 20 percent increase in premium product ticket revenues and double-digit percentage increases in cargo, loyalty and Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul revenue. For additional information, feel free to send questions to info@cresscap.com or view our website www.cresscap.com. Please click here to view CressCap Investment Research’s full disclaimer. 