Autonomous vehicles use a variety of sensors to perceive the world around them. Passive sensors, like cameras and microphones, capture the light and sound in the environment. Active sensors, like lidar, radar and ultrasonic units, emit different types of pulses and record how these pulses bounce off of nearby objects. Israeli startup Tactile Mobility seeks to add the sense of touch to a vehicle's sensor suite. CEO Amit Nisenbaum explains: The company does not produce sensor units, but rather creates "virtual sensors" by aggregating and analyzing existing vehicle data, such as speed, steering, and pedal positions. Tactile Mobility uses these virtual sensors to both assist the vehicle's driving system, and also to build high-definition maps of road quality and characteristics. Founder and CTO Boaz Mizrachi stresses the need to encode the chaos of real roads into a more structured representation. "You need a formalized representation of the analog world. If you want to do accurate prediction or detection of the tactile world, you must have a formalistic language to describe it," Mizrachi argues. By gathering data from many different vehicles, the company also develops the ability to apply the data to the particular physics of any specific vehicle. "We need to be able to normalize the data between different cars in order to generate a formalized language. Then we need to do the reverse, and denormalize the data for specific cars," outlines the CTO. The company began its journey seven years ago with an attempt to optimize fuel economy. "We noticed the most important data is missing - road grades, curvature. We realized that information wasn’t available to acquire anywhere," remembers Mizrachi. The company partnered with Ford on a predictive cruise control application, guiding truck drivers on how to steer so as to economize on fuel economy. But falling oil prices and the emergence of autonomous vehicles induced the startup to pivot toward optimizing the perception and performance of self-driving cars. Historically, most of the effort in autonomous vehicles has been oriented toward perceiving the environment and deciding how to react. Steering and acceleration, jointly referred to as "control", are already well-understood, and thus receive less attention from engineers. But as autonomous vehicles free passengers to engage in other activities inside the vehicle - including reading and working - improved control systems will be a major advantage. Smoother rides will enhance the value of driverless transportation and the freedom it provides. Cars that can feel the road as well as humans can, or better, might be important for making driverless rides as smooth as air.