Hey, wait a minute. Weren’t we hearing, like about 15 minutes ago, that the airlines, running on an unprecedented eight-year record of profitability, might now be headed for trouble again because of soaring crude oil and jet fuel prices? And weren’t we being warned, like six weeks ago, by a number of airline analysts and stock pickers that it might be time to dump shares of at least some of the big U.S. carriers? Yep. But in yet another illustration of just how much airlines’ share prices are leveraged to volatile energy prices, shares of the nation’s biggest carriers are all up between 13% and 20% over the last four weeks. During that same period the price of West Texas Intermediate, the U.S.’ benchmark oil, has fallen – you guessed it – nearly 20%. On October 22 – four weeks ago - WTI closed at $69.36 a barrel. By November 14 it was down to $56.25. On Monday it closed at $57.17, down 17.6% off that October 22 high. And in intraday trading Monday it hit a low of $55.08, just above WTI’s 52-week low $54.75. Meanwhile, Gulf Coast kerosene – essentially, jet fuel – fell from its own 12-month high of $2.32 a gallon on October 5 to $2.190 on November 9. As for the share prices of the nation’s big airlines, there’s some differences in how much they’ve gained because of notable differences in how they’re managed and/or in how sensitive some of them are or are not to other market factors like rising labor costs and both strategic and tactical differences in how they are operated. But all are seeing resurgence in their share prices only a month or so after the primary subject of conversation among airline investors was whether they should – and how to time - their exits from their investment positions. On Monday American’s parent closed at $35.82 a share, down 93 cents, but up 18% since bottoming out on October 24. Delta, the second largest airline in the world behind American (and most profitable airline) closed Monday at $56.19, up 31 cents from Friday’s close, and up 13% since October 10. No. 3 United closed at $92.09, down 17 cents, but up nearly 17% from October 10. And Southwest, which ranks No. 4 among U.S. airlines in total size but actually is the largest domestic carrier by a wide margin, closed Monday at $52.39, down 19 cents, but up 9.4% in just three weeks. For those who’ve been around the block – or the globe – a time or two in terms of airline investing, this really shouldn’t be a surprise. Stock price volatility, airlines is thy name. Since airlines first became publicly traded companies in the 1930s they’ve been notoriously subject to big swings from deep losses to modest profits and back down again. But there’s been a huge broadening in airline share ownership since 2015, when airlines, for the first time ever, kicked their financial performances into high gear with total operating profits of nearly $28.8 billion. Ordinary, individual investors long avoided what historically was viewed as one of Wall Street’s highest-stakes craps tables. But over the past nearly four years many individual investors have jumped into the airline investing game for the first time. In effect, they bought the argument that mergers among the biggest carriers over the preceding ten years had eliminated much of the volatility and risk associated with airline shares. Ah, but not all of the risk has been removed from airline investing. Most notably, airlines still – and likely always will – remain highly sensitive to energy price changes. The single biggest reason 2015 was such a watershed year for airline profitability: Jet fuel prices fell from $2.96 a gallon on January 3, 2014, to $1.58 a gallon on January. 2, 2015. They fell even further, to a low point of 90 cents a gallon Jan. 15, 2016, and remained below $2 gallon all the way until late January of this year. Accordingly, U.S. carriers followed up on their record 2015 haul with combined operating profits of $23.9 billion and $20.3 billion in 2016 and 2017, respectively. This year, however, jet fuel moved north again past the $2-a-gallon line in mid-April and peaked at $2.32 a gallon in early October. Along the way during that per-gallon price run-up one analyst after another issued a report warning investors of declining profits ahead and suggesting that perhaps they should consider selling their airline shares before the bottom falls out. But a funny thing happened after the jet fuel peaked on Oct. 5. Its price has tumbled more than 16% to $1.95 a gallon as of November 13. Why? And will the downward trend to continue? The answer, as you might expect, is tied up in global oil politics. Saudi Arabia, Russia and the United States currently are pumping huge amounts of crude, building up a massive global supply that’s pushing crude and pump prices down. They’re doing so to the chagrin of non-Saudi members of OPEC, who very much want to restrict production and lower supplies in order to drive prices higher. How long will the three megaproducers keep the pumps operating around the clock? Who knows? But most of the guessing going on suggests that the big producers will keep the valves wide open deep into 2019 or longer. Accordingly, analysts, some whom only a few weeks ago were suggesting that investors strap on their airline investing parachutes, are beginning very tentatively to talk about yet another big round of airline share price gains in the fourth quarter and in 2019. Are they right this time? Again, the answer is who knows? But that answer almost certainly will be linked to whatever the price of crude oil and of jet fuel, ends up being. 