Mountain bikes aren’t the sellers they used to be, and road racing bikes went off the boil even before Lance Armstrong lost $100m by telling all to Oprah in 2013. Electric bikes are filling some of the gaps, but one of the standout categories in today’s bike market – sometimes electrified – is the cargobike, the beefy bicycle that can schlepp more than you might think, and at least as much as a small car. While the category is hot today (Ford and VW both have skin in the game), it’s more of a comeback than an all-new phenomomen. Cargobikes were first popular in the 1880s and 1890s, but when cycling fell out of favor from about 1897 (before the popularity of the automobile) these utilitarian bikes went the same way as the dodo. For most Americans throughout the early years of the 20th Century the bicycle was perceived to be a child’s toy, not an adult’s transportation device. The Second World War flipped this status, with production of children’s bikes being halted for the priority manufacture of adult bicycles. The Office of Price Administration commissioned bicycle manufacturers Huffman and Westfield to make the Victory Bike. This was launched in January 1942 by OPA “price boss” Leon Henderson at a press shoot in Washington, DC. The Victory Bike was robust and had a large steel basket on the front. Henderson demonstrated its agility in front of the Capitol building, riding no-handed while chomping on an unlit cigar. Later in the shoot, he rode for some distance with his female stenographer in the basket, ahead of a “caravan of cycling [OPA] clerks.”    Press reports projected that 750,000 Victory Bikes would be sold each year to “help meet [the] auto shortage.” (During WWII, car use was restricted, and even deemed unpatriotic.) The actual number of Victory Bikes sold was far less than this, nevertheless, it was significant that a government department officially promoted bicycling as a more patriotic choice than motoring. Not all Americans were convinced it was their duty to scrimp on their driving, but such skepticism was called out by the New York Times. In an article sub-titled “Both for Business and Pleasure the Bike Is Replacing the Vanishing Motor Car,” the paper remarked: A report from Britain’s Ministry of War Transport confirmed this, stating that a “considerable fillip has been given to pedal cycling as the result of wartime restrictions on travel by car.” Postwar America saw cycling reduced to its former status as a mode of transport for kids and cranks. When the chance came to jettison bikes and get back into cars, it was taken with gusto. Automobiles were envisaged as anti-austerity symbols of victory; bicycles were portrayed as buzz-kills, a form of rationing on two wheels. “Bicycling was not inherently patriotic,” suggests historian James Longhurst. “It became so only by virtue of the rider’s choice to forgo another, preferred mode of transport. As a result, postwar Americans associated the automobile with affluence and freedom, and the bicycle with exigency and sacrifice.” Bicycles were no longer seen as load carriers or as anything other than leisure devices. In a paper in Transportation Research Record, Longhurst – author of Bike Battles – asserts that the Victory bike program was the “largest federal policy for bicycle transportation in the 20th century” but that, in the end, it was a “defeat for the viability of adult bicycle transportation, one that contributed to hobbling the feasibility of expanding bicycle mode share in the decades after the war.” During the Vietnam War, Americans remained dismissive of the luggage-carrying capacity of bicycles, until this became important to the enemy side. Known in Vietnamese as “steel horses,” bicycles were essential cargo carriers during the long war, with the record-holder, in 1964, hauling 925 pounds along the length of the Ho Chi Minh Trail. Most were French-made Peugeot bicycles. In 1967, a New York Times reporter described the effect of Vietnamese bicycle supply-lines on the war effort: “I literally believe that without bikes they’d have to get out of the war,” said the Hanoi-based Harry Salisbury to a Senate Foreign Relations Committee. “Why don’t we concentrate on bombing their bicycles instead of the bridges?” Senator William Fulbright demanded, adding, to laughter, “Does the Pentagon know about this?” The Pentagon most certainly did know about it, and the military’s top-brass weren’t laughing. “The bicycle survived the most modern weapons in the American military arsenal,” explains historian and Vietnam vet Arnold Blumberg. “Although the Vietnamese used 600 Russian-made Molotova 2.5-ton trucks as well as sampans, ponies and some 200,000 porters carrying spine-breaking loads, the mainstay of their logistical network was composed of 60,000 tough bicycle-pushing men and women.” The Pentagon commissioned a 1965 report from the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) on the use of bicycles in wartime. The introduction to Bicycle Troops noted: “Interest in the employment of bicycle troops is emerging once again, this time in Southeast Asia, where the road network is inadequate for motorized transportation, but where paths and dikes may provide an acceptable avenue for bicycle movement.” The report from the agency that later created ARPANET, which in turn led to the Internet, said bicycles had many advantages: they “require no fuel and are inexpensive to maintain . . . the silence of bicycle travel [allows] early warning of approaching planes . . . and bicycles do not create a large cloud of dust as do tanks and trucks.” Furthermore, noted the report, bicycles had been used to great effect in the First World War with “active soldiers of good physique” who had “morale . . . above the average.” The cargo-carrying bicycle didn’t catch on with Americans, but over in Europe, at roughly the same time, it was a different story. In 1971 an abandoned military area in the Christianshavn district of Copenhagen in Denmark was taken over by squatters. They claimed the area as a freetown: free of taxes and free of cars. Instead, the residents developed a cargobike with a large front bucket, and the Christiania bike was born. (In the Netherlands, there's a similar bike, the box-bike, or bakfiets.) Danish and Dutch cargo bikes – and those from mainstream North American brands, such as Kona – are now becoming normal sights in cities around the world. Chunky cargo bikes never went away in the U.S., as can be seen in a famous 2003 TV commercial. Patriotism, pedaling, fuel frugality, and cargo carrying on a Victory Bike lookalike were all wonderfully brought together for the advert promoting Miller Beer. Academy Award–winner Errol Morris filmed a robust, middle-aged American man riding through snow, with bottles of Miller High Life clinking in his front basket. A gravelly voiceover from Doug Jeffers intoned: “That’s the way, patriot; let the OPECs keep their gasoline. We’ll just tap into a far more efficient energy source: man power. If we all learn to pull our weight, nobody – nobody – will be able to siphon away . . . our High Life.” Cargobikes have a long history, and a bright future, even in car-obsessed America. +++ Article updated with inclusion of new paper by James Longhurst. 