Hundreds of barrels of crude oil per day have been spilling into the Gulf of Mexico since 2004 a largely unknown environmental disaster that is well on its way to becoming one of the worst offshore accidents in U.S. history. The spill began when an oil production platform owned by Taylor Energy was damaged and sank into the Gulf, burying 28 wells under a mudslide associated with Hurricane Ivan. Fourteen years later, it threatens to make the 2010 BP Deepwater Horizon spill, the largest ever in U.S. waters, look small by comparison. Despite more than a decade of lawsuits, studies and federal assessments, there is no resolution in sight. And unlike the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig – which killed 11 workers and leaked more than 3 million barrels of oil into the Gulf before it was capped – the Taylor Energy leaks have drawn little public attention. The leaks continue, making this case a perfect example of why we need more rigorous enforcement – with real consequences – of U.S. and global regulations to protect our oceans. Oil pollution is not regulated by global conventions, but perhaps it should be. In any event, coastal states should establish regulations to protect their nearshore waters and maintain a clean area for recreation and fishing. Taylor Energy sold its oil and gas assets and ended production in 2008, several years after the death of its founder. The company has declined to speak publicly about the spill and resulting damage, although it has stated in court filings that there is no evidence of leaks from its wells. It took a lawsuit from a consortium of environmental groups to force public acknowledgment of the leaking wells. Even so, the majority of Americans have paid little attention to the slow-motion disaster perhaps because the spill originated more than a dozen miles offshore and away from their everyday activities. The lack of attention, however, has done nothing to stem the damage racked up as the leaks continue. The toll oil spills take on wildlife is well-documented: Most spilled oil floats on the water surface, pushed outward by currents and wind and affecting diving birds, as well as fish and other marine life below. It also can affect human health. This is indeed a sad story that is giving the oil industry a bad name, raising the question of why Taylor Energy failed to cap the affected wells. Was the company embarrassed by the accident, wanting to avoid bad publicity, or to limit the cost of a cleanup? It might be a combination of these. Still, the responsibility doesn’t fall solely on the company, which had reported the spill to the Coast Guard and established a multimillion-dollar trust to clean it up. The oceans belong to everyone. They need to be taken care of, instead of being a dumping ground for unwanted materials. The oceans are crucial to planet Earth and how it functions in a complex manner. They are a major food supply for people everywhere. Let us all be more responsible and take care of them!