Jerome Powell is somewhat of an oddity. While many U.S. Federal Reserve (Fed) chairs have been macroeconomists that sharpened their skills in academia, Powell forged a high-profile career managing specialty finance and leveraged buyout funds as a partner at The Carlyle Group. The Fed’s dual mandate is to target inflation and maximize employment. It also has to pay attention to market vulnerabilities and track the health of financial conditions. However, Powell’s unconventional background and less reliance on models has made it difficult for investors to handicap the pace of Fed tightening, or conversely determine how quickly he would ease if growth slowed or equities dipped. Indeed, for most of this year, Powell has been less concerned about equity weakness and more troubled by the surging stock of high-yield corporate debt. In the minutes from the Fed’s September meeting, it specifically highlighted leveraged loans as a potential risk to financial stability. This alarm has also been echoed by former Fed chair Janet Yellen and International Monetary Fund (“IMF) head, Christine Lagarde.    Given Powell’s background, therefore, the high-yield debt market may provide investors with the most reliable signals as to what may slow the Fed’s steady pace of rate hikes. The Fed’s Role In Downturns  In the past, the Fed has shown a reliable reflex to try and contain severe equity downturns. Some of Powell’s predecessors, such as Alan Greenspan, who led the Fed from 1987 to 2000, were very attentive to deteriorating market conditions and tended to lower the Fed funds rate to stabilize equities. For example, Greenspan obliged during the 1987 equity correction, the S&L crisis, the Gulf War, the Mexican currency devaluation, the Asian Financial meltdown and the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Cutting rates certainly helped prolong the business cycle. However, markets started to expect that support and analysts dubbed it the “Greenspan Put”. A “put” is a derivative’s instrument that sets a floor on losses. And while there was obviously no formal Fed insurance in place, Greenspan seemed active in heading off market deterioration. The problem with this type of support is that it creates moral hazard. Markets start to anticipate a “bail out” and in turn take more risk with the expectation of downside protection. Asset bubbles can ensue, as was the case with the Dot Com crash when markets got overly exuberant about growth prospects and then violently corrected. Post 9/11, Greenspan’s attempts to avoid a recession led to a prolonged period of accommodative rates. That and some unscrupulous subprime mortgage underwriting, helped propelled a surge in home ownership. With the help of aggressive securitization these dubious mortgages were masked and sold as high quality securities that eventually soured and sparked the 2008 financial crisis. With the global economic at risk of a depression, Greenspan’s successor, Ben Bernanke, was forced to creatively adopt monetary policy to steer the economy towards recovery. The resulting Quantitative Easing (“QE”) solution was a massive asset buying program. The goal was to corral short-term rates around zero, depress long rates through purchasing trillions of Treasury bonds and government mortgages, and in turn push investors into riskier assets. As leadership passed to Janet Yellen, she gradually wound down QE and started to push up rates. New Era For The Fed? Now, with Powell in charge and the recent turbulence in equities, the market is speculating on the level at which a “Powell Put” would kick in. However, Powell seems in no rush to turn accommodative by slowing his commitment to steady rate hikes. He still sees the recent equity sell off as normal volatility rather than an impending crisis. At this point, many analysts think the Fed would consider pausing if the S&P 500 fell into the 2300-2400 range. That’s approximately 20% from its September high or roughly 10% below the current level. Unlike his predecessors, Powell is not a macroeconomist, who have tended to take their cues from equity markets. Instead, he understands the drivers and signals from high-yield debt markets. And while they are not signaling danger yet, Powell and team appear to be paying a lot of attention to that corner of the market. High-yield bond spreads tend to be very sensitive to deteriorating fundamentals and sentiment. For example, when oil dropped from over $110 per barrel in June 2014 to $28/b by January 2016, high-yield bond spreads jumped from 330 basis points (“bps”) to over 850bps as growth waned and energy profits got squeezed. Then, as oil prices gradually improved, spreads slowly retreated back to 300bps. Now, as the stock market hits a correction, high-yield spreads have moved above 400bps. If they continue that assent and breach 550bps, the Fed would likely view that as a material rise in financial stress, and would likely hit pause on rate hikes in the first half of next year. This material contains opinions of the author, but not necessarily those of Sun Life Financial or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates. 