How low does President Donald Trump want oil prices to go? It’s become a crucial question for global oil markets and the U.S. oil industry after the president cheered the recent plunge to $50 a barrel, the lowest level since 2015. Trump has taken credit for the 30% drop in prices over the past six weeks, referring to it as a “big tax cut” for Americans, and encouraged OPEC kingpin Saudi Arabia to push prices even lower. But it’s hardly a tax cut for the America’s oil producers, particularly oil service companies like mine. Our corner of the industry has struggled to recover from the prolonged downturn following the price rout of 2014 and now faces the prospect of, at best, highly volatile prices, and worst, another price collapse.    The recent price drop comes as producers are deciding on capital budgets for 2019, and a weakening market and the uncertain price outlook could prompt a more cautious approach. Anything that causes companies to underinvest represents a threat to the “energy dominance” agenda that Trump has promoted since moving into the White House. The president probably doesn’t need to be reminded that the shale boom was a key driver of the economy and job growth after the Great Recession a decade ago. If the oil and natural gas sector stalls, vast swaths of the economy – from the Gulf Coast to the Rust Belt – will suffer. The United States has unexpectedly become the world’s largest oil and gas producer in less than a decade, thanks to shale drilling in Texas, New Mexico, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Colorado, North Dakota, and Montana, while states like Alaska and California remain vital contributors to U.S. supply. U.S. oil production reached a record 11.6 million barrels a day in early November. The federal Energy Information Administration (EIA) is forecasting production of 12.1 million barrels a day in 2019, while the International Energy Agency (IEA) expects American oil will account for 80% of all new global production over the next three years. The situation is similar on the natural gas side with the EIA forecasting record growth. The White House should remember that the economy was booming earlier this year even when oil prices were trading above $70 a barrel, with gas prices at a consumer-friendly $2.80 to $2.90 a gallon on average nationwide. Firm oil prices and economic growth can coexist in the United States, which as I write this is poised to become one of the most important exporters of oil and gas in the world. Do most Americans benefit from lower prices? Sure, but this isn’t a binary choice. By openly cheering the oil price decline, Trump may be trying to distract Americans from the pain and chaos taking place in the financial markets. Major stock indexes are now showing losses on the year in part due to concerns about the global economy stemming from the ongoing trade war with China. But the president has also shown he has the power to impact oil prices using several levers. His deregulatory policies have aided the oil and gas boom, allowing energy companies invest with confidence. Trump’s Iran policy has also provided some measure of control over markets. By allowing Iran’s largest crude customers to taper off their purchases by granting temporary waivers from tough U.S. sanctions – instead of forcing them to zero immediately – the president alleviated concerns about global supply disruptions that had driven prices to over $80 a barrel in mid-October. Those waivers, which kicked in Nov. 5, must be renewed every six months, allowing the White House to review the global supply situation and decide how much it wants to turn the screws on Iran. Finally, it’s clear Trump has some sway with Saudi Arabia, the world’s only real swing producer. When oil prices fell below $55 a barrel in the United States last week, Trump tweeted: “Enjoy! $54, was just $82. Thank you to Saudi Arabia, but let’s go lower!”  Riyadh supports Trump’s stringent policy toward Iran and has responded to U.S. sanctions by increasing oil production to record levels of over 11 million barrels a day. Yes, Saudi Arabia is now proposing that OPEC and its non-OPEC allies, led by Russia, cut production again. But such news has failed to stimulate oil prices. Global benchmark Brent crude is barely holding onto the $60 a barrel level, while U.S. crude prices remain around $50. Oil markets seem to be brushing off the impact of the Saudi cuts, perhaps because they believe the Saudis won’t drive prices above the $80 mark, which appears to be a trigger point for Trump. Some pundits speculate that Trump, who has refused to blame Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman or the Saudi leadership for their role in the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, has extracted a promise from Riyadh that it won’t push up oil prices. Whatever the case, it’s clear Trump views the Saudis as a crucial ally. The president could also influence global oil demand by resolving the trade war with China, which has weighed on financial markets and applied the brakes to global growth. But when it comes to lower oil prices, Trump would do well not to be greedy. The IEA recently said that the U.S. shale sector would be almost solely responsible for meeting growth in global oil demand over the coming decade since OPEC alone can’t handle it and investment in conventional “long-cycle” oil projects around the world like deep-water and oil sands has dried up. Shale producers have become cost-efficient machines with low break-even levels in recent years, but they still require firm prices to meet investor demands for both growth and returns on investment. It’s a delicate balance. The question now is that with oil prices continuing to tumble, does Trump know when enough is enough? 