Updated at 3:30 PM Nov. 28th- Today's NYSE A/D ratios, 2333 advancing stocks and 674 declining stocks, will move the A/D lines above their resistance levels noted in this post. This will confirm that the stock market correction is now over.  Monday’s sharply higher open and strong close got little respect from market analysts, which is a good sign for those of us looking for a market bottom. In reaction to Monday’s early action, Jim Cramer commented: “Talk about classic bear-market behavior. There are a number of analysts that agree with Cramer, while others aren’t sure, but still want to sell rallies. My analysis, however, favors an eventual end to the correction, and a move towards higher prices. There has been a recent increase in the bearish investor sentiment, according to the American Association of Individual Investors (AAII). In the AAII survey results for the week ending 11/21/2018, there 25.3% of individual investors are bullish, and 47.1% were bearish. This was the lowest level of bullishness and the highest level of bearishness so far this year. The next survey will be released early Thursday on the AAII website.    There are also signs that institutional investors are becoming more negative. As reported recently by Bloomberg, a recent survey by the National Association of Active Investment Managers shows that “mutual funds’ equity exposure has fallen to 30.5 percent.” This was the lowest reading since the February 2, 2016 reading of 22.4%. The stock market completed an important market bottom on February 11, 2016, as the market internals and sentiment signaled that a low was in place. With one more week left in the month, the failure of the market to stage a decent rally makes the monthly S&P 500 analysis more important. The first thing to note is that the S&P 500 opened in November at 2717 and has a current monthly high of 2815. This creates a band of resistance, now in the 2717-2815 area for December. With the sharply lower closes of the past two weeks, one cannot ignore the October low of 2603 as well as the February 2018 low of 2532. This is 3.7% below last Friday’s close, with the 38.2% Fibonacci support from the 2016 low at 2508. The monthly chart shows that during this bull market, it has been unusual for corrections to last more than two consecutive months. In 2015 (highlighted), after two lower months, the S&P rebounded sharply in October. Additionally, the seasonal trend for December is quite positive: since 1950, the S&P has been up 51 years and down just 17. The average return has been 1.53%. For the stock market’s major trend, it is important to note that the monthly S&P 500 Advance/Decline line is still well above its rising Weighted Moving Average (WMA), as it has been since March of 2016 (see arrow). Though the month is not quite over, the monthly A/D line will hold above its WMA in November. Since the bull market began, the monthly A/D line has only spent three months below its WMA. The weekly A/D lines for the major averages are now back below their WMA's, as the S&P 500 Advance/Decline line dropped below its WMA last week. With a higher close this week, it could close Friday above its WMA. This would create a bullish formation. A strong close above the downtrend (line b) and the early November high will indicate that the correction is over. The weekly A/D line also has important weekly support, (line c). There is resistance for SPY now at $276.61 and the declining WMA. All of the daily A/D lines closed last week below their WMA's, but this changed on Monday as the positive advance/decline numbers moved the A/D lines back above their WMA's. All daily A/D lines are still holding above the October lows. The daily chart of the tech heavy Invesco QQQ Trust (QQQ) shows that QQQ, unlike SPY, made decisive new lows last week at $157.13, coming very close to the daily starc- band. The new correction lows were not confirmed by the Nasdaq 100 A/D line, which has formed higher lows (line c). This bullish divergence would be confirmed by a move above the downtrend (line b) and the November high. Of course, a few days of very weak A/D numbers could drop the A/D line below the support and last week’s low, which would signal a further correction. In over thirty years of advance/decline analysis, it is quite common for the A/D lines to outperform the market averages after a bottom is completed. This means that the A/D line may overcome its November high well before the QQQ surpasses the November 7 high at $175.58. The Dow Industrial, Russell 2000, and both NYSE A/D lines show similar formations that I am monitoring daily. The relentless nature of the decline from the highs has had more investors and traders worrying about a bear market. Though the stock market has dropped much further than I expected without a meaningful rally, I do not think we are in a bear market, based on the technical signals. With the S&P closing down 10.2% from its closing high last Friday, it is important to understand corrections and just how significant they can be, all without a change to the overall trend. In my article at the beginning of the month, A Survivor’s Guide To Market Corrections, I reviewed some of the past corrections and how they were followed by new highs. All had similar formations in the A/D lines and provided similar signals that the corrections were over. This chart from Advisor Perpectives details the declines during this bull market, with the most severe declines occurring in 2010, 2011, and during 2015-2016. The 2015-2016 decline was preceded by weekly negative divergences in the A/D line, as well as several months of deterioration. We are not currently seeing either of those weaknesses in the market, another sign that the overall bullish trend is still intact. In early 2018, the S&P dropped 10.16%, rallied 10.6%, and then declined 10.13%. These declines currently have about the same magnitude as the current decline. In a 2017 article from Sam Stovall, he pointed out that since 1945, there have been 21 Corrections of 10.0-19.9%. The average decline for these corrections has been 14%, and within four months, the stock market consistently regained its highs. Also over the same time period, there have been 56 corrections of 5.0-9.9%, with an average decline of 7%. It only took two months for the stock market to regain its highs after these corrections. The current stock market correction has increased investor concern over the health of the economy. The plunge in crude oil has also likely accentuated the market’s decline. Crude oil is trading well below the monthly starc- band, which has not happened since 2014. From the October high, crude oil is down over 33%, and there are concerns the drop may impact the high yield debt of some oil companies. As many of you are aware, I monitor a series of economic indicators that in the Spring of 2016 generally started new positive trends, even though many analysts were warning of a recession. Most of these indicators will break their positive trends before they reach levels that most real economists associate with a recession. The Bloomberg U.S. Recession Probability Index shows a 15% chance that the economy will have a recession in 2019. For now, I agree with them, but that could change in the coming months. I have found the Leading Economic Index (LEI) to be one of the more important economic indicators. It only barely increased in October from 112.0 to 112.1. Doug Short and Advisor Perspectives have done some excellent research on how the LEI peaks well ahead of a recession. The above chart shows the peaks in the LEI and all recessions since 1950. Clearly, my market analysis indicates that the action this week could signal that the market’s correction is over, which is my favored scenario. I am not recommending aggressive new buying in either ETFs or stocks, until the bullish divergences in the A/D lines are confirmed. There are ETFs, like the Health Care Sector Select (XLV) which has been leading the market higher. As for the technology stocks (The Week Ahead: How Much Lower Can Tech Go Now?) there are still no signs yet of a bottom in ETFs like the Technology Sector Select (XLK). I do update my analysis on Twitter. In my Viper ETF Report and the Viper Hot Stocks Report, I provide my A/D line analysis twice a week with specific buy and sell advice. New subscribers receive five trading lessons for just $34.95 each per month.   