Earlier this year, China launched its first crude oil futures contract denominated in its own currency – the yuan. That moment, duly noted via the screens of the Shanghai International Exchange on March 26, 2018, was indeed historic. For prior to it, Beijing had tried and fallen short several times. It experimented with issuing a domestic oil futures contract in 1993, but halted the move due to severe price volatility. Almost two decades later, the idea again gained traction in 2012. After another two years of work, the China Securities Regulatory Commission finally approved the launch in 2014. Many in the commodities world expected the contract to debut in 2015, but a massive Chinese stock market crash put it in limbo. Hence, the March 2018 launch was historic, but mainly for two reasons - firstly, that the Chinese finally got there is in itself a feat.    Secondly, as the world's largest importer of crude oil, and its second-largest consumer, a market impact statement was needed. But going beyond it, the assertion in some quarters that a rising 'petro-yuan' could break the stranglehold of the petrodollar is wide off the mark, and by several trillion dollars as it is. Let's examine the data from that historic trade of March 26 and who turned up. For starters, Glencore and Trafigura participated in the trade, lending a bit of gravitas to the nascent market. Crude exporters Iran, Iraq, Indonesia, Angola, Nigeria and Russia declared they were amenable to purchases in yuan. Ultimately, 15.4 million barrels of crude oil changed hands through the new contract. Before you think that was a massive initial take-up, think again. The volume level is what China imports in two days! Fact is, crude oil remains the world's most traded commodity, with an annual trade value of around $14 trillion (based on 2017 data); roughly equivalent to China's gross domestic product last year. And notice the currency denomination here – the dollar. It is the world's reserve currency and the oil market's preferred currency for more than four decades, used for pricing by nearly 70% of the world's oil, ever since Great Britain's dominance of global trade routes plummeted in the wake of the Second World War and a crumbling empire took down with it the role of the pound as a viable reserve currency. That the global proxy – Brent – is a British oil futures contract on paper, but is dollar-denominated says something. The dollar's liquidity allows the underpinning of several viable pricing benchmarks, not just Brent and the West Texas Intermediate. If proponents of the petro-yuan crave that status, then the currency's lack of liquidity should puncture their enthusiasm. The yuan is not yet fully convertible. The currency is fixed daily, subject to state intervention and capital controls, at the time of writing. It is theoretically possible that China might change this, but there is little indication of any appetite for doing so in the country's policy-making circles. In the absence of such moves, petro-yuan dominance simply cannot be achieved, as any many in the trading community would be minded to assume that a yuan-denominated oil benchmark would be firmly under Beijing's grasp. Let's now switch tack to who might back an oil contract underpinned by the yuan? Perhaps, only the needy! Iran has shown so much willingness to embrace the yuan, given U.S. President Donald Trump's unilateral re-imposition of sanctions is aimed at shutting them out of dollar transactions. For Russia, it's also down to political cravings, albeit of a different nature. Trading houses do accept payments in yuan and as do China's OPEC partners, but no one is about to place a bet on the Chinese currency by ditching the dollar anytime soon. Additionally, China's oil industry is dominated by three state-owned integrated oil companies. That means, in a complete contrast to the U.S. market, there are fewer independent oil and refining companies, and quite simply fewer domestic hedgers and arbitrage players. Overall, the birth of the petro-yuan was a natural thing for China, given its position in the global oil market. But it will be an uphill struggle for the petro-yuan to dislodge the petrodollar, along with a few trillion dollars worth of catching up to boot too. 