The last few years have undoubtedly been tough for those working within the oil and gas sector. According to Oil and Gas UK (OGUK), the oil sector supported 300,000 jobs in the UK last year, down from 460,000 just three years ago. However, OGUK has said it is encouraged by the latest Oil and Gas Survey issued by Aberdeen and Grampian Chamber of Commerce that has revealed oil and gas recruitment is on the rise as 33% of firms look to increase their UK workforce by 10% or more in 2019. Positive mood “We do now see a more positive mood in the sector, with more projects approved this year than in the last three years combined,” Deirdre Michie, chief executive of Oil & Gas UK, said. “However, as we continue to emerge from one of the toughest downturns in our history, the industry remains focused on maintaining its attractiveness in a competitive global market.    “As the report shows, the UK offshore oil and gas industry will continue to support highly-skilled roles for many years to come. Our strategy under Vision 2035 aims to add a generation of productive life to the basin while doubling the supply chain’s global footprint. “To achieve this, we need to continue to attract investment by ensuring strong competitive conditions for the basin, while expanding our reach through transporting the industry’s vast range of skills and talent across the globe.” Rising headcount The findings of the 29th Oil and Gas survey, conducted by Aberdeen & Grampian Chamber of Commerce reveal that 21% of firms have increased their total UK-based workforce by more than 10% in the last 12 months, with 33% anticipating this trend will continue in 2019. Looking further ahead, 34% percent of firms expect their headcount for contract staff to rise over the next three years. Almost two thirds (65%) of firms expect the level of core staff to increase and only 5% expect a fall over the same period. Indeed the survey shows growing business confidence across the board with 63% of contractors more confident about their current UKCS activities compared to the previous survey, the highest level since 2013. The industry appears to be setting its sights on growth opportunities, with 58% of firms forecasting an increase in profits in 2018 and a net balance of 50% of firms anticipating an increase in the value of production-related activities. Bear territory However, it is not all good new. After a period of strong price growth, the oil market has entered ‘bear’ territory in recent weeks. Several factors are to blame for this including rising supply and inventories – even following new sanctions on Iran – and fears of a more general slowdown in the global economy. The outlook remains highly uncertain and a period of renewed uncertainty is likely to be a feature of the next few months. This latest survey points to conditions prevailing relatively favorable for North Sea contractors and operators at least compared to two to three years ago. Looking at skills requirements, 44% of respondents identified at least one discipline in short supply, with a significant number pinpointing a lack of engineers. Firms also reported a shortage of suitable technical staff and those with IT experience, particularly programmers and software engineers; with a number further noting problems attracting sales and management staff. “Despite a recent reduction in the oil price, the relative stability of recent months is driving a more positive sentiment. It’s hugely positive to see business confidence amongst contractors improve further on the already high levels witnessed over the past two years. That optimism for the future outlook of the sector is high,” Moray Barber, partner at KPMG, said. “The price of oil is driving a more positive sentiment across the industry, but the survey does highlight the importance of retaining our best people and ensuring that the next generation of talent has the right type of skills for the coming energy transition. We need to be asking where the next generation of talent is going to come from, what skills do they really need, and what are we doing in industry and academia to ensure we have enough people to help sustain that headcount growth? “Overall, this survey tells us that change is afoot, and the direction of travel is positive, but there continue to be potential traps along the way, not least the impact of Brexit, a potential impending skills gap and environmental and climate change risk. We believe the industry is alive to these challenges as we are seeing our clients develop growth strategies and scenario planning to deal with the risks these present, as well as driving forward their technology and innovation agenda to become disruptors.” 