Nobody’s breaking into print waxing bullish on the year to come. Jamie Dimon, headman at JPMorgan Chase, sniffed the air and pronounced recession in the cards next year or in 2020. Such a vague utterance, can’t be proved wrong for a year to come. Next few weeks, the Street’s pundits break into print, but they can’t get away with Dimon vagaries. They must wrestle with corporate earnings power, interest rates and inflation. Then, slap a price-earnings ratio on the market. A recent music sheet I saw put a 3,000 target on the S&P 500 Index one year out which for me is pie in the sky. All such ciphering is too simplistic because it doesn’t deal with the zero-sum game between Trump and China over tariffs. Implications of the FRB’s policy emphasis of quarter-pointing us to death for the foreseeable future (yearend 2019) bothers me. Single-handedly, the Fed easily could put the country into recession by pushing up money market rates to 3.5% or more. Big blocks of loans, namely subprime paper and parts of the mortgage market are tied to money market rates. We’re talking trillions upon trillions here. Throw in car loans as well. Home mortgage market activity just peaked as did the monthly selling rate on new cars. So far, largesse of the corporate tax cut fails to stimulate capital goods investment. Why should it? The level of capacity utilization for manufacturing is stuck in high seventies which for decades was synonymous with recession. Where dwell inflationary biases in the economy? Nowhere! Don’t talk to me about minimum wages for part-timers finally reaching $15 an hour even at McDonald’s, Amazon’s forklift truck jockeys or Walmart’s “associates.” Long ago, I gave up forecasting the price of Brent crude oil. Too many supply and demand variables. But, the crack in the index adumbrates excess supply coming from our shale oil production, OPEC’s surplus capacity plus Iran and Iraq. The gas station I pass in the morning just dropped prices a dime a gallon. Home fuel quotes should ease, a dividend for homeowners. This is anti-inflation stuff. Tariff wars push up domestic prices for steel and aluminum, but these are oversupplied commodities in world markets. Same goes for copper and iron ore. Freeport-McMoRan ticks near its low for this cycle, barely in double digits. Alcoa and U.S. Steel are dead-in-the-water paper. So much for the Federal Reserve Board’s relentless motive force on money market rates. All this gets rationalized in their pat academic phraseology - getting ahead of the curve on inflation. What inflation? I’d take one multiple off the price-earnings ratio of the market based on our dumb bunny FRB stubbornly prodding us with quarter pointers. Still more market valuation cuts coming. Take a point off the p/e multiplier for the unpredictability of Trump’s tariff wrestle with China. Then lop off another point for the end of the fillip from the tax cut. Next year, we’ll be comparing after-tax earnings rates. Most corporations, including JPMorgan Chase, chose not to compare quarterly earnings results this year on a pretax basis with 2017. Come on, Jamie, fess up. You too, Wells Fargo. Because I believe the flattened yield curve could stick around, I’ve pared back my bank stocks to below sector weighting in the S&P 500 Index. Still holding Morgan Stanley, Bank of America and Citigroup. In a pricey market I like owning stocks selling at 10 times earnings power 12 months out. I’ve now paired down the price-earnings ratio, to 15 times from 18 times. The market never deserved to sell at 18 times earnings. That was our problem all year long. Sure, tech got a little crazy, but players failed to deal realistically with the impact of money market rates and the corporate earnings growth rate, specifically on pre-tax comparisons with 2017. Call the market’s correction a valuation correction. Now we’re on firmer ground, but I’ve got to justify even a 15 multiplier. The only way to do this is by historical comparisons in good, normal and recessionary settings. Panics show an eerie similarity to each other. Stocks bottom out at book value, yielding near 5% at 10 times earnings. We saw this in the 2008-2009 meltown, during the 2000 tech bubble nonsense and certainly in 1982 when Paul Volcker notched up interest rates, unmercifully, to 15%. His rationale was to rid the country of its inflationary expectations. Volcker won. Not leveraged real estate operators like Donald Trump. While writing this piece, yellow-vested Parisians are protesting high taxes on diesel and gasoline. Along the Champs-Élysées they’re crushing the roadway with sledgehammers. Tear gas so far is not doing its job. Never underestimate how bad things can get even for a short time. In the summer of 1982 my partners tried to push me out the window of our 42nd story office window in the General Motors Building. (I had bought a block of Fannie Mae debentures maturing in five years, yielding 15%.) Somehow, I survived on pushback. Consider this: My 50-year charts show large-cap tech stocks with trend valuation near 1.5 times the S&P 500. I’ve started to buy Facebook on this basis. They’re finally dealing with a decade of hubris. Disbelief in growth surfaced in 2013-2014, too. Microsoft, Cisco Systems, certainly Apple but even Google sold at no premium. Whereas, yearend 1972, Morgan Guaranty’s portfolio of growth stocks sold at a crazy premium. Schlumberger at 57 times earnings with Avon Products trading at 65 times and Polaroid at a 90 p/e ratio, a 400% premium to the market. Once the Street falls out of love with an industry or stock it’s broken and purgatory can last five years or more. Today, I’m betting Alphabet and Facebook remain viable properties, but I hold no Apple. Financial history caps the 50-year trendline for valuation at 15 times earnings, but the market can easily zip to over 20 times, or crash below 10 times when there’s panic in the streets. But, the 15 times multiple needs some qualification. Long-term Treasuries mustn’t exceed 4%. Real yield near 2.5% keeps the market comfortably at 16 times earnings. Today, the real yield on 30-year Treasuries is closer to 1.5%. This puts the S&P 500 near a 15 times valuation. You gotta assume your earnings forecast is just right on forward 12-months numbers. I’m at $170 a share in earnings for 2019, notching the market at 2,550 into the new year. The consensus is a little higher on earnings power, but much higher on valuation. My backup is operating profit margins ain’t excessive while corporate balance sheets exhibit financial ratios as good as it gets. Short-term debt doesn’t exceed credit market debt. Wages as a percentage of gdp rest way below numbers in the seventies, eighties. Net, net, our market excesses seem more valuation related than systemic. My major tech house play is Microsoft, on fair valuation and free cash flow numbers, a major player in cloud computing. As for Facebook, their arrogance is getting beat out of them. I’ve no idea how regulators attack this beast with 2.5 billion users, but, its numbers if they hang in stand awesomely tall. Here’s my rearview mirror stuff: Advertising revenues rose 33% to $13.7 billion latest quarter. Newly embedded costs rose 53% so operating income was ahead 13% at $5.8 billion. This is a lot of money to work with as after-tax results hit $1.76 a share. Facebook could be selling at 20 times earnings power, what Coca-Cola sells for. Digging in, R&D, over $2.65 billion, approaches 20% of quarterly revenues, an enormous spend absolutely, easily matching any other tech house, software provider or biotech operator. Share-based compensation runs near 20% of earnings, my cutoff for an investment in an internet house. Operating cash flow of $7.5 billion, a $30 billion possible yearly run rate, puts valuation on this $382 billion property at a 13 times multiplier. Cheap! Cheap! Cheap! Because operating cash flow is the putty management has to work with, I consider it the pivotal metric. Next couple of quarters’ numbers either confirm or blow up in my face. I call this lady or tiger investing, a sometime luxury to indulge in. Sosnoff and / or his managed accounts own: JPMorgan Chase, Amazon, Wells Fargo preferreds, Morgan Stanley, Bank of America, Citigroup, Facebook, Microsoft and Alphabet. msosnoff@gmail.com