Everybody’s favorite Fed chairman is speaking in New York today at noon. Will the market fall another 200 points and erase the morning’s gains after he’s done at The Economic Club today at noon? Valuations in the U.S. are elevated. New home sales are down 8.9% in October versus forecasts of a 4% decline. Everyone is expecting the end of the bull market next year, and the fiscal stimulus that boosted the economy in Trump's first two years in office will have less of an impact by 2020. An ongoing trade war with China, coupled with rising interest rates in the U.S., means the market will be paying very close attention to Jerome Powell today. A 25 basis points rate hike is expected in two weeks. Will next year see a pause? If the market senses a pause, equities could hold steady and even rally a bit. If the market senses more than one hike next year, every gain on the day is gone. “Investors are focusing on whether the Fed sticks with its approach of ‘gradual’ interest rate increases or whether, in acknowledging slower global economic growth, it switches to a more dovish stance,” thinks Neil MacKinnon, an economist at VTB Capital in London.    Current interest rate projections are for three hikes of 25 basis points in 2019, hitting 3.5% in the Fed Funds rate next year. That means much higher mortgage rates and other consumer credit rates, but at least 200 basis points. Odds are for a 77% probability of another 25 bips being added to the overnight lending right on December 18. Every Fed Open Markets Committee meeting in 2019 is now “live” for a policy change, and open to interpretation. Powell will be stirring the tea leaves today in New York. Fed vice chairman Richard Clarida reiterated yesterday that the FOMC’s policy decisions will remain “data-dependent.” The U.S. economy has been strong and inflation is around 2.1% on the year, meaning real Fed rates in the U.S. are under 1%. No one in the market outside of bond traders really looks at real rates anyway because it is the consumer credit rate that matters most. Higher Fed rates mean much higher consumer and corporate credit rates. Meanwhile, for the data-dependent Fed, inflation is under control thanks to falling oil prices. The bull market is getting old. Next year will mark its 10th anniversary. If it was to go into 2020, that would be a world record. Consensus forecasts expect real GDP growth to return to trend rates of growth seen in the Obama years, around 2%. The Atlanta Fed’s GDP Nowcast model is predicting a 2.5% annualized growth rate in the current quarter. For the "data-dependent" Fed, there is also some evidence that interest-sensitive sectors such as autos and housing are in decline, as was evident by Wednesday’s housing numbers. Moreover, higher Fed rates mean higher corporate and consumer rates, and so investors are looking for signs of stress in B-rated credit markets especially in the leveraged loans market where rating downgrades are kicking in. Some commentators have called junk bonds the “new subprime.” According to Deutsche Bank, this year was the third time in the past 100 years in which more than 60% of global financial assets have declined, the other two times were 1920 and 1994. *Gulp.* As far as the global economy is concerned, signs of retrenchment are taking place, with Japan and Germany recording negative GDP growth in the third quarter, VTB’s MacKinnon says. The World Trade Organization published an update of its outlook indicator yesterday, and it showed a further decline in trade for the current quarter, with export orders at their lowest level since 2012. French consumer confidence is at its lowest since February 2015, and if you think President Trump has a lousy approval rating, President Emmanuel Macron’s rating is in freefall. In Italy, GDP growth is stagnant and the European Commission is scheduled to take excessive deficit procedures against Italy before the end of the year. “A Rome-Brussels standoff over the Italian coalition government’s budget plans could easily spark a fresh debt and banking crisis,” says MacKinnon. The Fed usually does not consider the global picture when deciding on rates. But for dramatic effect, if Italy left the euro, the Bundesbank of Germany could potentially face a 500 billion euro loss. Meanwhile, all’s kind of well in China today. In Hong Kong, the relatively placid Hang Seng Index celebrated the news of Trump and Xi having dinner this coming Saturday at the G-20 in Argentina. It 1.33% on higher volume day over day though still below the 52-week average. In mainland China’s A-shares market, the Shanghai & Shenzhen Indexes gained 1.05% and 1.4% on hopes that Xi and Trump can at least agree to stop increasing tariffs. 