The government’s assessment of the economic impact of leaving the EU Single Market produced estimates that are roughly in line with previous assessments. The lack of a surprising estimate should be reassuring for maintaining financial stability, but the Bank of England Governor Mark Carney has warned about a 1970s style shock. And that’s not the only concern for economic stability. The government estimates that if there are frictions at the border for trade and a reduction in migration, then there will be a 3.9% reduction in GDP in 15 years’ time in today's prices, which roughly translates into national output being £100 billion lower each year. Fewer border frictions and more migration would lessen that impact. The Chancellor Philip Hammond has stressed that the British economy will continue to grow so this is “a very modest impact on the overall size of the economy.” But, if the UK ended up in a Canada-style trade agreement with the EU, then that would reduce GDP by 6.7% and no deal at all would result in a 9.7% smaller economy. The most striking part of the assessment is the small amount of potential gains from striking free trade deals with major economies such as the US and China, as well as Australia, New Zealand, Middle Eastern and East Asian countries. The government estimates it would add less than 0.1% to GDP. Of course, 15 years is a long time and estimates are based on evidence derived from existing models, but the conclusion from the government’s assessment is clear. There is a short-term economic cost to Brexit. The imperative will be to reconstitute the UK’s trading relationship with the EU. But in terms of financial stability, these estimates won’t pose a shock. When BOE Governor Carney warns about a 1970s-style shock, those two oil price shocks were just that – surprises that raised prices that severely affected production costs. By contrast, even the no deal scenario is fairly well-trodden ground not just for the BOE but also financial institutions. So, what should be in focus is whether the financial system is prepared for the Brexit Withdrawal Agreement not passing Parliament, which would push forward the deadline for being prepared for the no deal scenario. And most importantly, whether the government itself has put in sufficient contingencies to be able to trade on WTO terms next March. That would have more of an effect on financial and economic stability than today’s assessment of the impact of Brexit.