Oil and the Socialists United of Venezuela used to sustain the country and its economy. Now Venezuela is held together by a thread and some duct tape. Odds of 2019 being better are precisely zero. Next year will be another year in the Venezuelan Great Depression, Fitch Solutions Macro Research Group said. Fitch’s business intelligence unit added their voice to the chorus of Venezuela doomsayers late last week. Collapsing oil exports, a hollowing out of the domestic production base, hyperinflation, an exodus of able bodies, sanctions and corruption have brought this country to its knees. Fitch Solutions forecast real GDP growth of -12.6% in 2018, down from an estimated -10.6% in 2017. Fitch Solutions revised their 2019 GDP forecast for Venezuela down from -10.1% to -13.9%. Downside risks to the forecast are substantial in both the short and long term, especially as oil prices fall. Venezuela has been using some of its cash reserves to pay bondholders on a number of PdVSA oil bond issues, namely the 2020 bonds. But if next year is worse than this year, investors may be wise to start writing PdVSA off as a loss in 2019, barring a changing of the guard. The Socialists United are the only game in town. The opposition parties have been knee-capped for at least a year and have no voice in the government. Nicolas Maduro, the country’s president, still has the support of diehard party advocates. The poor and military also have Maduro’s back, but sources have told me that Cuban intelligence officers are working with Maduro and the military to help oust officers who are at risk of going off-the-reservation and orchestrating a military coup against him. A few soldiers have been purged already. The oil sector, which accounts for more than 90% of Venezuela’s exports, has effectively collapsed following years of mismanagement and underinvestment in PdVSA. PdVSA owns the Citgo gasoline stations. But over the last two years, the company has required financial support and was only able to find it from China and Russia. Russia’s Rosneft is now a key stakeholder in Citgo. PdVSA is in such disarray it is unclear if the company would even survive a change in government. Deteriorating infrastructure and PdVSA’s inability to even pay its workers in some cases and over some periods of time has led to mass resignations in recent months. Fitch’s oil and gas analysts believe PdVSA’s oil production will fall a whopping 29.3% this year. But next year won’t be any better. In fact, it will be worse. Fitch is looking at a 31.2% drop in 2019, further limiting hard currency inflows. The currency is basically useless. Over the last two years, local communities have taken to bartering or creating their own neighborhood currencies. Maduro created his own cryptocoin, called the Petro, but Lord knows what that is worth and Americans are banned from owning it. Meanwhile, the Venezuelan Bolivar is expected to depreciate rapidly over the next few months. Money supply growth and currency controls continue to undermine confidence in the unit. Average exchange rates for the currency next year are seen at 40,586 Bolivars to the dollar, up from 157.3 Bolivars to the dollar in 2018. The currency will collapse further next year if Fitch’s analysts are correct. Although the U.S. media like to talk about migrant flows from central America, the majority of whom admit they are not fleeing gang violence or political persecution, the real migrant crisis in the Americas is occurring out of Venezuela. Hundreds of thousands are fleeing the country each quarter, with over a million living in Colombia. Venezuelans have been fleeing on foot to Brazil and Ecuador as well, with some of the more middle-income and wealthy going to Buenos Aires, Miami and Madrid. From a pure numbers perspective, the economic malaise means fewer imports and more Venezuelans sending money back home to family members. This has Venezuela running a massive current account surplus in 2018. The only problem is that because PdVSA is in such dire straits, exports will fall and the current account, once the best thing going on the government’s balance sheet, will go into negative territory in 2019. Fitch is looking at an 18% surplus ending 2018 flipping to an 18.4% deficit in 2019. Investors in PdVSA bonds are likely to witness creditor action against the oil firm’s assets next year. This Saturday, Bloomberg reporter Fabiola Zerpa reported on the catastrophe that is PdVSA. She said the company was polluting waterways and farmland in the oil-rich Orinoco River Valley. The company has no money, and the politicians seem to have no political will to clean up an environmental disaster that, like the country itself, worsens every year. 