The upstream segment of the oil and gas industry has historically been a largely reactive business. Producers over the years have made a practice of trying to weight their reserve portfolios toward being either liquids-heavy or gas-heavy, depending on a variety of market factors, the most important of which is the expected commodity price. The trouble with that business practice, of course, is that it is incredibly difficult - impossible, really - for anyone to reliably and consistently project the prices for crude oil or natural gas with any accuracy. It's like trying to predict the weather in the Dallas/Fort Worth area in Texas, where the local weather people seem to be completely wrong about 80% of the time. "Experts" who try to predict energy commodity prices have about the same rate of success. The past two months have provided a stark example: As I pointed out a couple of weeks ago, September's projections of a "return to $100 oil" have been replaced by similarly-perilous projections that the West Texas Intermediate (WTI) price could fall to $40 per barrel. Companies that were the subject of derision a few weeks ago because they had hedged some of their equity production at $55 are suddenly looking pretty smart. Where natural gas is concerned, sensible projections of $3/Mmbtu NYMEX prices as far as the eye could see have shifted to predictions of $4.50 to $5.00 through next spring thanks to low storage levels and a very early November cold snap. There are simply too many variables that go into determining the market value of each commodity, and many of them - like the weather - are just not predictable. The first half decade of the 21st century saw many companies weight their portfolios heavily towards natural gas due to the strong prices at the time, and a lack of understanding then of the enormous volumes of the product that existed in the nation's unconventional formations. The prevailing view during that period that gas prices would remain at or above $7/Mmbtu for many years to come led some upstream companies and power providers to make bets on the commodity that proved to be financially disastrous. Beginning around 2009, as the natural gas price collapsed and global crude markets tightened, many upstream companies engaged in a similar rush to weight their reserves more towards liquids. This allowed them to take better advantage of the massive quantities of crude being discovered in the Eagle Ford, the Bakken, the DJ Basin and the Permian Basin. Unfortunately, it also led to a rapid rise in U.S. production that contributed to the collapse of the the commodity price and the worst bust the industry has experienced since the early 1980s. More than 200 upstream companies went through the bankruptcy process during 2015-16 as a result. But then the OPEC+ export limitation agreement came about, and the resulting stronger oil prices gave the survivors in the upstream business some breathing room again. Beginning in 2017, we saw another rush to liquids, this time focused on the Permian Basin, were companies have been willing to pay previously unheard-of per-acre prices for acquisitions and new leasehold in the region. This culminated in an August sale of federal leases in Southeast New Mexico in which the average bonus fee paid was $95,000 per acre. At the time of that lease sale, the price for a barrel of WTI was beginning to approach $70. It has dropped by 30% since then, something no one in the industry was anticipating. Meanwhile, the NYMEX price for natural gas has risen by 60% during that same period, from about $2.70 to roughly $4.50. A few weeks ago, the common view was that this rise would be temporary, simply a winter-based phenomenon resulting from low storage and early cold weather. But as we have seen so many times in the past, the common view on where prices are heading is more often wrong than right. It does seem most likely that, should this higher price picture linger for more than a few months, the upstream industry will respond by activating more gas-targeted drilling rigs and quickly generate a supply response that will cause the price to fall back into the $3.00/mmbtu range. But - and there's always a "but" in these exercises - the demand for natural gas is starting to rise significantly in the nation's expanding chemicals and plastics industry, as well as the power sector, where natural gas continues to displace coal as the preferred fuel. With at least three additional LNG export facilities coming on line in the next 12 months, and half a dozen more in the queue for the two years after that, rising demand for that commodity will only accelerate. So the question becomes how rapid the upstream industry's supply response to the higher prices becomes. It is likely to remain slow through the end of this calendar year, as companies doing all the drilling are still executing on their 2018 budgets. But when the 2019 budgets start to kick in after the first of the year, we can count on an acceleration. Will that acceleration be gradual and fairly orderly? Or will we see a number of producers engage in another rush to get "more gassy" in their portfolios, activating so many new rigs that they quickly drill the price back down to lower levels? The latter would seem the most likely scenario because, while it is terribly hard to accurately predict oil or gas prices, we do know without any doubt at all that the U.S. oil and gas industry seldom progresses in anything resembling an orderly fashion. 