“Keep your friends close, and your enemies closer” was almost certainly the rationale behind Icelandair’s now-canceled decision to take over WOW Air this month. The Icelandic flag-carrier has steadily lost market share since its lower-cost, more nimble, better marketed rival took to the skies in 2012 – copying its intercontinental hub model but with greater efficiencies and a stronger brand. When Icelandair walked away from the deal yesterday – essentially hinting that WOW’s financial problems were terminal – pundits sounded a death knell for the younger carrier. WOW’s founder, Skuli Mogensen, had been candid that his airline was struggling amid high oil prices and market jitters over the collapse of Primera Air, another low-cost long-haul airline. Joining forces with a flag-carrier he had publicly berated for years appeared to be a final, grudging throw of the dice. In all likelihood, some members of Icelandair’s board would have relished yanking back the lifeline and watching their rival sink under a tide of negative press. But, if that was their expectation, the move has backfired spectacularly. Within hours of canceling the deal, just as many were condemning WOW to the scrapheap, a new white knight emerged in the form of Indigo Partners, the U.S. private equity firm that specializes in investments in low-cost carriers.    The market’s reaction has been telling. Shares in Icelandair plunged 13% yesterday as traders interpreted its decision as a missed opportunity for the under-performing flag-carrier. They nosedived another 11% this morning, when the Iceland Stock Exchange re-opened following Indigo’s after-hours announcement. Conversely, Iceland’s currency the krona – which had fallen 1% yesterday amid fears that WOW’s demise would hurt tourism in the country – surged 2% in early morning trading. WOW’s own valuation is trickier to gauge as the company is not publicly listed (before its recent troubles, Mogensen said he was aiming for a stock market flotation around 2020). Certainly this year has been a torrid one for the airline: it closed several routes, returned four aircraft, and is projecting a loss of $28 million. However, its long-term prospects should be transformed with Indigo as an investor. As well as being able to negotiate better rates for WOW’s aircraft leases, the U.S. firm has a wealth of experience refining and synergizing low-cost business models. Its investment stable includes two highly profitable budget airlines that are considered pioneers in their home countries: Hungary’s Wizz Air and America’s Frontier Airlines. It also holds stakes in Mexico’s Volaris and Chile’s JetSmart. And while critics of low-cost long-haul flying tend to bunch WOW with Primera and Norwegian Air – another financially adventurous airline – Mogensen has one unique advantage over his peers. Geographical trump card Iceland’s geography, as I noted four years ago, allows WOW (and Icelandair) to do something that its rivals simply cannot: fly short-haul routes between Europe and America. Yes, stopping in Reykjavik means taking two separate flights. And yes, the advent of longer-range narrowbodies has opened up the transatlantic market. But the economic benefit of flying short-haul routes with faster turnarounds is huge, especially given the network effect of feeding all flights into a central hub. Put simply, Norwegian has to work harder than WOW to make money from its long-haul point-to-point flights. The geographical trump card is nothing new to Icelanders: in the 1960s, Loftleiðir was dubbed the “Hippie Airline” for its strategy of shuttling students between America and Europe on a tight budget. Loftleiðir later merged with a rival to become Icelandair, giving rise to a more traditional full-service network airline. That approach served it well for decades. But its conservatism is ill-suited to an era of ultra-low-cost travel. Icelandair’s fleet is now old by global standards, and its profits are meagre. Curiously, instead of defending its home market from WOW, the flag-carrier has spent much of its energy scouting for ways to replicate the hub model elsewhere in the Atlantic. Two candidates were always going to stand out to the company: the Azores islands, west of Portugal; and Cape Verde, west of Senegal. The Azores is a potential bridging point for flights between Europe and Central America. Cape Verde is suited to linking Europe with South America, or indeed Africa with North America. Icelandair made advances on both markets this year. Acting through its wet-lease and charter subsidiary, which still carries the Loftleiðir brand, the flag-carrier this month submitted an offer to buy 51% of Cabo Verde Airlines. In April, it drafted a proposal to buy 49% of Azores Airlines. It is possible that, in recent days, Icelandair’s board began to worry that three airline investments would be too much risk for the group. It likely presumed that a bruised and demoralized WOW would be unable to stay afloat. If so, that now looks like a costly miscalculation. Pending due diligence of the WOW-Indigo deal, Icelandair may rue turning its attention abroad while the bigger prize of dominance in Reykjavik was still up for grabs. 