President Trump left the G20 his usual self, patting himself on the back for the “incredible deal” he got with his Chinese counterpart and supposed BFF Xi Jinping. Wall Street was basically demanding a ceasefire in the trade war. They got one. The biggest winners in terms of soaring stock values are the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets. They may finally claw their way out of bear territory. Until the ceasefire ends around March 2. Meanwhile, the hot A-shares ETF, the Deutsche Bank X-Trackers CSI-300 (ASHR) is up 3.25% out of the gate on Monday morning. Only Russia is doing better thanks to higher oil prices on account of news that Qatar was splitting with OPEC. China’s A-shares need to rally around 8% to get out of bear territory. The other two China ETFs, the iShares MSCI China (MCHI) and the iShares FTSE China (FXI), are down 15% and 10% respectively, with China bank-heavy FXI actually outperforming the emerging market index year-to-date. China stocks were the place to be Friday night. The Hang Seng jumped 2.55% at the opening this morning on strong volumes above the 52-week average . Only four stocks fell on that index today. Tencent gained 4.1% and Macau casinos had a strong day thanks to November sales revenue doing better than expected. Hong Kong investors poured into Shanghai and Shenzhen stocks. Shanghai & Shenzhen gained 2.57% and 3.27% respectively on very strong volumes exceeding the 52-week average. Some 3,576 stocks advanced with only 45 stocks declining. Buyers outpaced sellers by a margin of 3-to-1. Trump’s deal—as far as we know at this time—is a mix of purchase promises from China and a postponement in the planned increase to 25% from 10% on $200 billion worth of Chinese imports over a 90-day period. The market was hoping for no new tariffs. “You cannot see more tariff hikes come out of this meeting,” Tony Roth, CIO of Wilmington Trust, said on Friday before the deal was announced the following day. “If you can pull that off, you get a rally.” Wilmington Trust is overweight China. See: Here's What American Companies Really Think About China — Forbes China Thinks It's An Emerging Market. It Doesn't Look Like One — Forbes Trade Truce Gives Both Sides Political Breathing Room — The New York Times A Chinese delegation is expected to visit Washington later this month. For the past 12 years, the U.S. government has had a laundry list of items it has wanted Beijing to move on, including opening up its market to American financial services firms. Companies like Visa and Mastercard are basically non-existent in China, with locally-owned UnionPay dominating the retail payments market. Washington is also concerned over intellectual property rights, which they believe are easily violated given China's requirement for foreign firms to partner with local ones in order to establish a beachhead on the mainland. China is developing its own intellectual property so there may be some mutual interest. However, it has been clear from the start of the trade war that China was not interested in breaking up tech transfer requirements in joint ventures with Chinese companies. A potentially insurmountable task awaits. Trump scored on agricultural commodities with China apparently agreeing to pay more for American soybeans than Brazilian soybeans; liquefied natural gas exports; aircraft; and perhaps best of all: greater access for financial firms to enter China. Word of caution: China has promised to open the market for foreign banks for years now. Foreign investment firms are already on the mainland but often have to partner with government banks. Schroders of London, for instance, partners with the Bank of Communications, a state-owned big-five lender. Allianz was recently allowed to operate an insurance company while UBS was given the right to run a securities business in China. See: Oil Deals Key To Peace In South China Sea — Forbes “I am sure several New York firms would like to be involved,” says Brendan Ahern, CIO of KraneShares, a China-centric ETF company. “I believe the 90-day reprieve could be extended if these softballs are taken up,” he says, adding that tech transfers and IP will not be resolved in 90 days. China’s economy is still facing headwinds from trade. November Caixin China PMI Manufacturing for November was flat at 50.2 versus October’s 50.1. Anything over 50 is considered a positive. Output declined slightly while new orders rose to the highest level since July 2018. It will be interesting to see if the PMIs pick up over the next several months based on the trade agreement. U.S. merchandise trade activity growth extended to a 25th straight month in October with a 9.1% year-over-year growth, according to Panjiva Research. Import growth of 10% beat export growth of 7.7%. The trade deficit, one of the many banes of Trump’s existence, reached $77.3 billion, the widest since 2008. The automotive sector may become more controversial given exports fell 1.2% while imports rose 7.8% to a record high, Panjiva research analysts wrote in a client report last week.