Oil markets were greeted with the news early on Monday (December 3) that Qatar, an OPEC member since 1961, will be quitting the oil cartel on January 1, 2019 to "focus national efforts" on its liquefied natural gas (LNG) industry, a hydrocarbon sphere where it is presently the market leader. Making the announcement in Doha, Energy Minister Saad Sherida Al-Kaabi said the country plans to up its production capacity from 4.8 million barrels of oil per day (boepd) to 6.5 million boepd. "Achieving our ambitious strategy will undoubtedly require focused efforts, commitment and dedication to maintain and strengthen Qatar's position as the leading LNG producer. I would like to reaffirm Qatar's pride in its international standing at the forefront of natural gas producers, and as the biggest exporter of LNG." What Al-Kaabi didn't do was touch on the toxic geopolitics of the Middle East and concerted efforts by Qatar's neighbors to sideline it via diplomatic and economic sanctions, fronted by OPEC heavyweight Saudi Arabia. In June 2017, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Bahrain, along with Libya, Yemen, Maldives and Egypt closed their borders, severing land, sea and air contact with Qatar, accusing it of "adopting various terrorist and sectarian groups aimed at destabilizing the region including the Muslim Brotherhood Group, Daesh (ISIS) and Al-Qaeda." Since then, several attempts to diffuse the row have failed, with both sides entrenched in their positions. The development also brought Turkey and Qatar closer, with the latter allowing the former to expand its military operations in the Qatari peninsula, adding another layer of tension. Monday's developments hardly come as a surprise, even if the timing carries a shock effect. Qatari representatives to OPEC have often appeared isolated at the cartel's biannual summits in Vienna since the diplomatic spat, with staff scrambling to arrange the summit seating arrangements to place the Qatari delegation away from U.A.E and Saudi officials at the conference table. In barrel terms, Qatar's departure hardly constitutes a major rupture. It currently produces around 1 million barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil, including condensates. The cartel's 2016 production cut, in concert with 10 non-OPEC producers including Russia, saw Doha reduce production by a mere 30,000 bpd, or 1.7% of the total, according to data aggregator S&P Global Platts. Overall, Qatar is OPEC's 11th-biggest oil producer, accounting for less than 2% of total output by volume. However, in terms of market sentiment and symbolism, Qatar's move could not have come at a worse time for the cartel. The price correction last month saw Brent crude fall from $84 per barrel prices to below $60, before a minor recovery kicked in. Confidence in OPEC's ability to influence the oil price direction was already low, and Qatar's decision would dent it further at a time when the U.S., Russia and Saudi Arabia are collectively producing more than all of OPEC, and Washington has the bragging rights of being the world's largest crude producer. Additionally, symbolism matters. To put into perspective, OPEC's core Middle Eastern members often put economic interests above politics, and did so even during all out conflicts such as the Iran-Iraq war and Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait. But the oil market should invariably infer that the Saudi-led blockade of Qatar has caused irreparable damage. In the decades of its existence, three nations have left the cartel, although two later re-joined. Last year, Indonesia suspended its OPEC membership, again, because its status as a net importer of oil, made partaking in the Saudi-Russian led production cuts impractical. But Qatar's departure feels different; it is the first Middle Eastern member nation to quit the cartel. What's more OPEC is facing onslaughts from all directions, including, and not the least from U.S. President Donald Trump's twitter account. The U.S. Department of Justice is reviewing legislation to curtail the cartel's power, a move that has widespread support in both houses of legislature stateside. If passed, the so-called "NOPEC bill" could open up OPEC members to legal action under the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890; last used to break up the oil empire of John Rockefeller. But casting complications relating to public relations, sentiment and symbolism aside, Qatar has every right to be selfish given the way it has been cornered, says Ashutosh Shastri, Director at EnerStrat Consulting. "The development had been in the making for quite a while; but the speed and timing [i.e. so quickly on the back of G20 in Buenos Aires, just before the OPEC meeting in Vienna and COP24 in Katowice] is extremely interesting. "Oil rich Saudi Arabia [which produces 10 times more crude than Qatar] – that had scoffed at Doha when it launched its LNG trains in the early 1990s – is now staring a global energy transition anchored around natural gas. For LNG pricing, moving inexorably away from traditional long term oil indexation structures to greater gas-on-gas competition, this development is supportive of the trend." And even from a pure play perspective, should we ignore the diplomatic kerfuffle in the background, Al-Kaabi's statement that Qatar wishes to retain its share of the global LNG market and move away from oil indexation can also be viewed as its willingness to listen to its customers, Shashtri concludes. Of course, wider implications of the move cannot be ignored. Unquestionably, Qatar is standing up to its OPEC cousins, who with the notable exception of Iran and Venezuela, usually fall behind the Saudis time and again. Therefore, it is a predictable 'Qatarstrophe' of the Saudis own making.