As part of its drive to improve operational efficiency the oil and gas sector has been looking at standardization as a vital tool. There has been good progress in several areas, but one key segment of the industry is lagging, namely automation. The dependence of the oil and gas industry on automation has increased in the last decade, and this is expected further to double by 2020. As a result of project cancellation followed by the fall in crude oil prices from 2014 to 2016, multiple rounds of industry layoffs were announced that left companies with a reduced number of skilled workers. This increased the dependence of oil companies on automation to complete processes without any delay. Digital oil fields According to Frost & Sullivan initiatives to digitize oil fields are being implemented, and this has led to investing in instrumentation to increase productivity and complete projects within defined budgets and timelines. These initiatives have been found to be extremely beneficial, especially in offshore rigs, to gathering production data promptly. ExxonMobil Research and Engineering have been publicly advocating for the development of a new, standards-based process control framework for some time. In 2014, ExxonMobil produced a functional characteristics document that it shared with the industry at the 2015 ARC Forum event. Since then, three industry day events and several webcasts have been held to socialize the idea and gain the support of other end users with similar requirements. Given the expertise and success of The Open Group in building similar standards in other industries, ExxonMobil brought this initiative to The Open Group for help in forming a new standards activity to address both business and technical challenges in the process control industry. The Open Group has established this as the Open Process Automation Forum. Why another standard? While there are several standards available at various levels that are useful and relevant to this area, none deliver the required characteristics of portability and interoperability. Also, it is critically important to the success of this initiative that business requirements of the entire industry ecosystem be considered, to create a win-win environment for all industry participants. “The oil and gas industry is ‘always-on’ and has long en defined by the legacy systems that help it to function,” Ed Harrington, director, The Open Group Open Process Automation Forum, said. “However, as digitalization continues to transform this sector, organizations are looking for common technologies that can help them balance requirements for uptime, security and safety with the need to take advantage of digital innovation. Digital transformation does not require a ‘rip and replace’ approach. Instead, organizations should view this as an opportunity to improve the functional capabilities of their facility and move to a new software environment which extends the life of the traditional legacy systems.” Open standards No one can deny that digital technologies are the future. Looking ahead, we can expect to see many companies turn to open standards to help them improve operational efficiency and grapple with digital complexity. Organizations within the oil and gas sector are working harmoniously with their peers to create open systems that will ensure digital transformation initiatives can be done at a low cost and with minimal disruption. When there is a safe path to digital for these companies, it will unlock significant cost savings and efficiency for the broader process automation industry.” “Critical infrastructure industries are struggling to attract and retain the right technological capabilities,” Harrington added. “Ultimately, the main barrier for graduates entering these industries is outdated proprietary technologies, which demands time-consuming and expensive training and limit future job prospects. As a result, the job market stagnates and older generations are the only people with the knowledge of how specific systems work. “However, the operational technology and automation space are moving to the same compute stack – and if we can streamline software languages, these various parties will soon begin to speak the same language. This will reduce costs and streamline effectively so that there are enough people within an organization and the wider industry sharing the same knowledge and skillsets. The alternative future is one where we see an ever-increasing skills gap.” Looking ahead, companies will need to agree on technical standards that are open, based on common languages. This means process control systems in one organization are compatible with those from another. This will not only make it easier and cheaper for existing staff to replace and repair control systems, it will also be easier for new talent to be attracted to and retained within the mining sector.