As America retreats from global multilateral systems, the European Union is seeking to fill the vacuum. Today, Brussels launched another salvo against U.S. dominance, this time over the dollar's hold over world’s financial transaction system. The EU is questioning why the dollar should still be the currency used worldwide in international payments. The plan, presented by the European Commission, targets energy as the main sector in which the euro can quickly and most effectively replace the dollar as the transactional currency. “The European Union is the world's largest energy importer: around 90% of the oil it needs and around 70% of its gas needs are imported,” said EU energy commissioner Miguel Arias Cañete presenting the strategy today. “Our annual energy import bill amounts to €300 billion euro. And around 85% is paid in U.S. dollars while the U.S. share in imports is currently only 2%.” “This means that the vast majority of the long-term contracts of these energy imports are not denominated in euros. This is clearly not sustainable and it does not reflect the role the euro should have worldwide.”    Europeans have long grumbled over the dollar’s “exorbitant privilege” in international transactions, which gives the United States leverage to pressure other countries in the realm of foreign policy. Now, with Donald Trump turning away from the world and pursuing an aggressive trade policy toward allies, many in Europe see an opportunity to boost the euro, currently the world’s number two reserve currency, ahead of the dollar. Iran workaround There are other, more immediate reasons to push this change in the energy sector. Following President Trump’s decision to withdraw from an agreement with Iran to halt its nuclear program in exchange for ending sanctions, European companies doing business with Iran now face possible U.S. sanctions themselves. The EU has been looking at ways to shield those companies from U.S. sanctions, and denominating the transactions in euros would be one way to do it. The Commission suggested today that these recent moves by the U.S. government show that the dollar is not a trustworthy currency. “The predominance of trades based on U.S. dollars means that recent unilateral actions by third countries, together with declining support for international rules-based governance and trade, can impede or at least make energy trade more difficult,” Cañete said. “Strengthening the international role of the Euro in the field of energy investment and trade will help to reduce the risk of supply disruptions and promote the autonomy of European businesses.” The Commission is recommending three actions for EU national governments, central oil stockholding agencies, companies in the energy markets, price-reporting agencies, commodity exchanges, and European financial services companies: the wider use of the euro in energy-related international agreements, transactions, and financial services for energy related projects. The measures are recommendations and are not binding. "The decision to use a currency is ultimately made by market participants," the Commission acknowledged. Difficult task However the EU’s quest to overtake the dollar will be an uphill battle. The dollar has become the world’s transactional currency for energy largely because it has higher liquidity and lower transactional costs, and is used as a benchmark in commodities and derivatives markets. The dollar’s dominance in these areas would be difficult to dislodge in the short term. Trust in the euro was also greatly damaged by the 2007-08 financial crisis and ensuing European debt crisis. Though the euro seemed to be heading toward dislodging the dollar in the last decade, this progress suddenly halted after the crisis. Sixty percent of sovereign debt issuance and global foreign exchange reserves remain in dollars today. Though the euro is the second-most used global currency, it represents just 20%. The Commission acknowledged these realities today and said that quick reform of the Eurozone is the best way to overcome the trust issue for this 20-year-old currency. However this reform has been blocked by reluctant member states like Germany and Italy, who have each opposed reforms for different reasons. Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker identified strengthening the international role of the euro as one of his main aims in his annual State Of The Union address to the European Parliament in September. He said the euro should become "the face and the instrument of a new, more sovereign Europe" that would free not only Europe, but also the world from U.S. dominance over the global financial system. However, Juncker’s term will be ending in September of next year. Whether the Commission aggressively pursues the plans laid out today will depend on who becomes the next president, which will be determined by the EU elections taking place in May. 