The price of a barrel of crude oil dropped from $76 in early October to $50 by late November. The possible causes are much discussed: could it be the effect of much greater production than usual? Is it the consequence of seasonal tendencies? Might it indicate that a global economic slowdown is unfolding? On a daily basis, there are indications that the relentless decline may be at least slowing. The buyers who began showing up finally at the 50 dollar level have been able to bring it back to 53 here in early December. Here's what the daily price chart looks like:    The relative strength indicator above the price chart hit a low in early November and has come back a bit as the lower low was established. The moving average convergence/divergence indicator below the price chart agrees: you can see that the turning up here is the opposite of the turning down that was seen as a warning in early October. So, maybe at least for the shorter-term, the price of oil looks to be halting the relentless decline of the last few weeks. Here's the weekly chart: By taking this technical analysis look at the slightly longer perspective, you can see that the damage is done. The price has closed decidedly below the up trend line that connects the early 2016 low with the mid-2017 low. The Ichimoku cloud range has been penetrated on the downside, not a bullish sign for oil here. It even looks as if the cloud itself is about to change from green to red over on the right side of the display. Whatever was pleasing about the oil market for more than 2 and a half years is definitely no longer pleasing, according to this chart. And here's the monthly price chart: From the standpoint of the longer-term, captured in the chart above, the price of crude oil has been in a down trend since early 2008. That peak price up near 150 remains in place -- where it hit before the big economic contraction that unfolded beginning in that year. It has tested the 110 to 120 level in the years following but always seems to pull back. The moving average convergence/divergence indicator below the price chart shows that the 2016 buy signal has now reversed -- I've circled in red the buy and sell signals. So the shorter-term upward action in early December will be fighting against the heavy-duty forces keeping the longer-term in a down trend. You could make out a possible inverse head and shoulders pattern on the monthly chart in the 2015 to 2018 time frame, but it may also be likely that the upward potential from the right shoulder is already exhausted. I do not hold positions in these investments. No recommendations are made one way or the other. If you're an investor, you'd want to look much deeper into each of these situations. You can lose money trading or investing in stocks and other instruments. Always do your own independent research, due diligence and seek professional advice from a licensed investment advisor. 