Gulf countries could face a far slower rate of economic growth next year as a result of last week’s agreement by Opec members to curb oil production. A number of Gulf countries including Saudi Arabia and the UAE were among the members of the oil cartel to agree a cut of 800,000 barrels a day (b/d) at a meeting in Vienna which ended on December 7. Non-Opec members including Russia, Kazakhstan, Sudan and Mexico agreed to contribute a further cut of 400,000 b/d in total. The announcement from Opec did not spell out how much each member state will be expected to reduce their output by, but the indications are that Saudi production could fall by 500,000 b/d and Russian output is likely to be trimmed by at least 200,000 b/d.    Analysts warn that the vagueness of the deal will make it difficult to police and, as a result, it may not be fully adhered to. Even so, London-based Capital Economics has warned that the output curbs will mean that the economic slowdown it had already been expecting for a number of Gulf countries from around mid-2019 “will now occur earlier and be more severe.” In a research note issued on December 7, the firm said it did not expect the production cuts to lead to a sustained rise in prices and, as a result, it expects oil revenues to be lower in the Gulf next year. Kuwait seems likely to be worst affected. Capital Economics has revised its GDP growth forecast for next year for Kuwait down from 4.8% to just 1%. It has also cut its growth forecast for the Saudi economy from 4.3% to 1.3%. The UAE is not expected to suffer quite as badly, but its growth rate is still expected to drop from a previously-predicted 4.3% to 3.5%. Qatar, which is a relatively small producer and which is quitting the Opec club from January but which is still expected to adhere to agreements among major producers, is likely to see growth slow from a previous forecast of 4.3% to just 2%. “We think that the Opec deal will have an overall negative impact on GDP growth in the Gulf over the coming quarters,” wrote Jason Tuvey, senior emerging markets economist at Capital Economics. “We had already expected that growth would start to slow from mid-2019 but this slowdown will now occur earlier and be more severe than we had expected.” Others have taken a similar line. Oxford Economics says there is now a bleaker outlook for Gulf countries heading into 2019 as a result of the deal in Vienna. It has trimmed its growth predictions for the Gulf Cooperation Council – the bloc of six countries made up of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE – from its previous forecast of 3.1% down to 2.6% now. That is at least still higher than the estimated growth rate of 2.4% for this year, but still far below the 4.7% average seen in 2005-14. The main risk, according to the firm, is the potential for government spending plans to be delayed or scaled back, which would hit wider economic activity. “Lower revenues in the wake of the oil price retreat threaten a considerably less expansive fiscal policy than in 2018, which may weigh on the recovery in non-oil output,” said Maya Senussi, senior economist at Oxford Economics. Some from outside the Gulf region are more optimistic about their economy’s prospects though. Kirill Dmitriev, chief executive of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, the country’s sovereign wealth fund, welcomed the decision to curb oil output, saying it could “significantly stimulate the growth of the Russian economy.” That prediction may be based on the assumption that the cuts will bolster crude prices and lead to higher revenues for the government and Russian oil firms. However, many analysts remain unconvinced that the cuts announced in Vienna will have a long-term impact. Prices rose on Friday, the day the deal was announced, but fell back again when markets reopened the following Monday. 