In August, Jamie Dimon, CEO of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and the nation’s most prominent banker, predicted the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note could reach 4% in 2018. He cautioned investors to prepare for 5% or higher.  Dimon’s call was not a contrarian one. It had become conventional wisdom on Wall Street that rates were headed higher and that the Federal Reserve would be tightening monetary policy for the foreseeable future.  Jeffrey Gundlach, the billionaire bond king who predicted the yield on the 10-year Treasury would hit 6% in 2020, said in October as rates were spiking that the 10-year yield was in the middle of its move upward and would soon reach 3.6%.  In 2018, the biggest billionaire names in bond market investing over the last 30 years all echoed this sentiment. Ray Dalio was talking about the potential for the largest bear market in bonds in nearly 30 years. Bill Gross and Paul Tudor Jones forecasted that bonds would plunge. The point is not to pounce on the predictions of prominent money managers, but to illustrate how prevalent the idea was on Wall Street that yields were set to rise. It might also explain the speed at which this narrative has reversed and a bond rally emerged at the end of 2018.  It seems like a lot of big market players—like sovereign wealth funds and other institutional investors—were waiting for yields to rise before making their bond purchases and are finding themselves drastically underweight U.S. Treasuries. Have some of them been buying? An important trigger was Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell’s comment in late November that the Fed’s benchmark rate was “just below” the neutral level, suggesting the Fed’s tightening cycle may be nearing its end. Just a month earlier, in October, Powell had said the Fed was “a long way” from neutral.” (On Thursday, somebody seemed to have tried to walk his October comments back. ) Powell chose to make his remarks at a visit to the Economic Club of New York, even though he was scheduled to testify before Congress the following week. Apparently, his comments were urgent.  There was some public sniping that Powell was trying to placate President Donald Trump, who had been criticizing the Federal Reserve all fall, saying “they’re so tight. I think the Fed has gone crazy.” Stocks initially surged as investors anticipated the end of Fed rate hikes. But in the ensuing days, stocks have sold off sharply as investors absorbed that President Trump may have been right.  Fed rate hikes have clearly hurt important segments of the U.S. economy, like autos and housing. The European economy has problems with Italy and Brexit. China’s economy is slowing while the U.S.-China confrontation is escalating.  Here is a thought: For all the talk of tariffs, they may have been stimulative for a big part of 2018 as companies anticipated them and built up their inventories before they hit. The other stimulus, President Trump’s tax cut, has also petered out. And while inflation has been widely expected, the U.S. government’s consumer price index continues to show very little of it. Meanwhile, oil prices have plunged since early October.  Not many on Wall Street were calling for the yield on the 10-year Treasury note to be at 2.85% in December, but that is where it settled on Friday. Some still can't believe it. Dimon said on Wednesday that “the 10-year should already be at 4%.” The Federal Reserve is still expected to raise rates again later this month. But some might start joking that Powell is going ahead with the December rate hike to assert Fed independence and to not appear to be following the orders of President Trump.   