Crude oil futures traded off their highs Wednesday morning after the release of the Energy Information Administration's Weekly Petroleum Status Report at 10:30 AM. While some traders may have been disappointed by the magnitude of the reduction in U.S commercial crude inventories (1.2 million barrels,) it still represented a second consecutive increase after ten consecutive weeks of increase. That inventory build took the market for U.S. crude (as measured by the West Texas Intermediate benchmark) from $70/barrel in early October to below $50/barrel last week. That's how the energy markets work. The veteran oil traders I talk to were not surprised by the rapid correction in oil prices this fall nor were they shouting “oil is crashing” or “oil is heading to $40/barrel” like some of the Chicken Littles on financial TV. Energy traders are always focus on the next play, and that's why the inventory figure was not the important one in this week’s EIA report. No, the figure to focus on was the U.S. crude oil production figure: 11.6 million barrels per day (mmbpd.) That represented a decline from the 11.7 mmbpd figure that had held for the prior three weeks. In recent weeks I have read many articles from oil market pundits--and have received feedback on my Forbes articles in the same tone--with the same message: U.S. oil production is inevitably, inexorably rising, and will reach 12.5 mmbpd by next year. Thus the restraint shown by the OPEC+ group--with a a collective production cut of 1.2 mmbpd agreed last week at OPEC's meeting in Vienna--would be washed away by more Texas black gold. I do not claim to be an expert on the internal politics of OPEC--and their increasingly influential Russian allies--but I do know how managers at U.S. exploration and production companies (E&Ps) make their decisions: IRR. Every E&P I have dealt with--from multibillion dollar multinationals to operations that are quite literally mom-and-pops--uses Internal Rate of Return to decide whether to drill an oil well. Assuming that well costs are stable--and I am not hearing reports of inflation from my friends in the oil services industry--the variable in the IRR calculation is found in "the strip," the chart of the NYMEX monthly futures contracts. The strip will tell an E&P when to aggressively drill by leasing oil rigs or, in contrast, merely sit on current production and try to to manage the marked declines from initial production rates that are inherent in production from tight oil plays such as shale. The number that matters from the E&Ps--those that provide the marginal supply--is really next year's futures contract prices, not the current month's, which will cease trading on December 20th. As of this writing the February 2020 contract sits at $53.62, with a very even slope between the front month contract price of $52.17 and that year-ahead figure. So, today's strip does not hold the promise of future riches, and the mega-bulls' calls for $100/barrel oil in 2019 seem to have dissipated. The E&P executives I talk to are cautious heading into 2019 and more are releasing rigs than obtaining new ones. There's just no reason to be any more bullish heading into 2019 then there was heading into 2018. The dismal performance of E&P stocks this year--the SPDR ETF focused on exploration and production companies, XOP, is down nearly 20% year-to-date--is at the forefront of the minds of those that run publicly-traded E&P companies. The recent downturn in the high-yield bond market was catalyzed by a sell off in energy bonds, also, so Wall Street is giving E&P CEOs multiple warnings not to expend incremental capital in 2019. So, as I have mentioned in prior Forbes columns, I believe the oil market is more in balance now than at any time in this business cycle. Things are decidedly neutral in the oil markets, and the decision-makers in the U.S. are not at all in “Drill, Baby, Drill” mode. That will be the case until IRRs on future wells improve and the inevitable rise in U.S. oil production in 2019 will not be so inevitable after all. 