A recent dose of semi-hot miltary action in the Azov Sea near Russia’s Crimea and mainland Ukraine has Kiev parliamentary figures calling on President Trump to go after the Kremlin even more than Washington’s current sanctions regime. The Russian government attacked Ukrainian naval vessels recently, citing security concerns over a waterway between Crimea to Ukraine, a peninsula still considered by the United Nations as part of Ukraine and not Russia. As a result, some in Kiev are calling for the Russian Nord Stream 2 pipeline to be sanctioned. The Nord Stream 2 line is already on the depth chart of U.S. sanctions against Russia for numerous reasons, not the least being its incursion into eastern Ukraine’s Donbass region and March 2014 annexation of Crimea. The pipeline is a key to Germany’s energy future following the shutdown of numerous nuclear power plants after the nuclear disaster at the Fukushima power plant in Japan in March 2011. Two German companies—Wintershall and Uniper—are part of the pipeline deal with Russia’s Gazprom.    The Speaker of Ukraine’s Parliament, Andriy Parubiy, addressed Vice President Mike Pence and Congressional leaders this week. In a statement dated December 4, he called on the United States and the U.S. Congress to impose more sanctions on Russia for its November 25 military actions in both the Black Sea and the Azov Sea. Ukrainian sailors were taken hostage during the days-long standoff between the two countries. Parubiy says Russia frequently uses “safety of critical infrastructure” as a pretext to deny passage of Ukrainian ships through the Kerch Strait despite existing naval agreements between them. For Parubiy, there is nothing eventually stopping Vladimir Putin from citing the need to protect Nord Stream II to jack up its military presence in the Baltic Sea. In an attempt to woo Washington to Ukrainian’s side, Parubiy said such an outcome compromises security of international maritime and aerial navigation in Nord Stream zones and increases the odds of hostile actions between Russia and other European nations. Parubiy urged Vice President Mike Pence to implement section 232 of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) signed begrudgingly by Trump in his first year. The Act allows the Trump Administration to sanction investment, goods, services or technology related to Russia’s energy export projects. Parubiy also asked Pence to pass the Defending America Against Kremlin Aggression Act, introduced in the Senate by Lindsey Graham on August 1 2018. The bill is still in committee. Unlike CAATSA, this particular bill does not mention the words “Nord Stream” or “pipeline.” Germany immediately came out against Washington’s threats to sanction the project in CAATSA. The pipeline is being built alongside Nord Stream 1 in the Baltic Sea. It is largely viewed as a means to circumvent Ukraine, Gazprom’s traditional supplier into Europe. Gazprom is also building a secondary pipeline through the Black Sea with BOTAS Petroleum of Turkey. The Ukrainian politician also mentioned that project. Trump chastised Angela Merkel to her face on Nord Stream 2 during a trip to Europe earlier this year. He said Germany was basically talking out of both sides of its mouth: going after Putin for his role in Ukraine, while investing alongside his state-owned company, Gazprom, to build the new pipeline. Germany, which often touts its environmental credentials, has been busy importing dirty coal from Poland in order to keep its lights on ever since shuttering its nuclear power plants. Nord Stream 2 is considered an essential part of Germany's low-carbon energy future. Gazprom is the world’s leading natural gas exporter. 