Ministers from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and non-OPEC partners like Russia descend on Vienna this week with the idea of taming an oil market whipsawed by extreme volatility. But any notion that the cartel can successfully “manage” the market should be put to rest. There are too many factors in play that preclude a straightforward supply cut from balancing global oil markets with a quick deal, even though OPEC kingpin Saudi Arabia and Russia have already agreed to extend their cooperative supply management efforts into 2019. Oil prices have plunged nearly 30% since early October, and international benchmark Brent now trades just above $60 a barrel. Current prices already reflect traders’ expectation that OPEC and its non-OPEC partners will agree to a major cut to their collective production this week. How much will be enough to satisfy traders, though, is another question. OPEC is expected to announce cuts of 1.3 million barrels a day, but that may prove insufficient. The market has already rejected previous proposed reductions of 500,000 and 1 million barrels a day, so anything less than 2 million barrels a day could prompt oil prices to fall further. History shows there is no sure thing when it comes to OPEC meetings. Already, some smaller players in the cartel are grumbling that Riyadh and Moscow have hijacked control of oil policy, rendering them voiceless. For proof look no further than Qatar’s decision earlier this week to exit OPEC after 58 years of membership. In other words, unless OPEC and Russia agree to cuts of 2 million barrels a day, there is only downside risk coming from the December 6-7 meetings in Vienna. An upside surprise is not likely given internal OPEC divisions and hesitancy from Russia to deeper cuts. Indeed, crucial parts of Russia’s oil industry aren’t happy that Moscow has been sucked into the OPEC vortex, forced to make output adjustments every few months to satisfy the whims of a fickle market. Russian oil companies have already complained to Moscow about having their growth plans stunted. Saudi Arabia meanwhile insists it won’t shoulder the cuts alone, which means it needs Russia along for the ride. But with strong personalities like Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and Russian President Vladimir Putin involved, it’s not difficult to imagine how a deal could easily unravel. Any cuts by Saudi Arabia and Russia will also be lopped off current production levels, not the lower baseline used in the previous deal in late 2016. Output in both Saudi Arabia and Russia hit record levels in October-November, reducing the impact of future cuts on the market. OPEC misread the market before, most notably in 2014 when it underestimated the resilience of U.S. shale and lost a price war to plucky American producers. But the cartel could be forgiven for misreading it this time. Few, if anyone, saw the current glut coming. Supply shortage fears pervaded oil markets for most of 2018, only to be replaced in a matter of weeks by oversupply concerns and building inventories. U.S. shale remains a thorn in OPEC’s side with the sector’s growth regularly outperforming expectations. U.S. oil production grew by an astounding 2 million barrels a day this year to more than 11.5 million barrels a day, making America the world’s largest producer. And it won’t stop growing anytime soon. Production is seen averaging over 12 million barrels a day in 2019. And that forecast may be conservative based on U.S producers’ history of surpassing expectations. There is more to consider in global oil markets than U.S. shale, of course, including the Trump administration’s unpredictable application of unilateral sanctions on Iran that could affect up to 1 million barrels a day of Iranian exports every six months, random supply outages – such as the one seen in Canada in recent days – as well as the short- and long-term uncertainties of oil demand. If Trump decides to turn the screws tighter on Iran it could reduce the need for OPEC and Russia to cut so much, but it's a lever Trump alone controls. Aside from geopolitics, the oil demand outlook has weakened considerably, mainly due to fears of slowing global economic growth stemming from President Trump’s trade fight with China. Without OPEC action, the cartel itself warns that the oil surplus could be as high as 1.4 million barrels a day in the first half of 2019. The Paris-based International Energy Agency sees a potential overhang of 2 million barrels a day. OPEC has lowered its 2019 world oil demand growth forecast in each of the last four months, and Saudi Arabia has reported a sharp drop in orders for its December crude. Whatever announcement comes out of this week’s OPEC meeting, market watchers should expect the Saudis to be somewhat vague about how much they’re ultimately willing to cut in order to avoid, as much as possible, prompting another Twitter storm by President Trump. Financial and commodities markets rallied early this week on the trade war truce the United States and China called at the G20 summit. Combined with news of Saudi Arabia and Russia’s intention to cut production, benchmark Brent crude prices climbed back over the $60 a barrel mark. But extreme volatility returned to markets after some tough talk by the self-anointed “Tariff Man” Trump on Tuesday, who made clear that he would revert to more tariffs on China if the two sides could not resolve their difference during the 90 day truce. The news immediately sent U.S. stocks sharply lower and curbed any positive momentum in oil markets. Without a definitive trade agreement, investors are focused, improbably, on the potential for the U.S. economy to enter a full-blown recession, which could portend even lower prices for oil. That’s how quickly market sentiment can change. And with so many uncontrollable factors in play, there’s not much OPEC can do about it. 