They say numbers don't lie, and the last two weeks for the U.S. oil and gas industry have seen the announcements of some pretty amazing numbers. These are numbers that demonstrate exactly how productive and efficient the business has become, and numbers that must be put into some context to understand how extraordinary they really are. So, as we move into mid-December 2018, let's give it a shot: The U.S became a "net exporter" of petroleum liquids for the first time 75 years. - That's right, the week of November 30 through December 5 saw the United States of America actually export more crude oil and other oil-derived liquids than it imported from other countries. The key part of that sentence is "other oil-derived liquids," which include gasoline, diesel and other refined products. Rolling all of those products into the equation, the U.S. exported about 211,000 barrels per day more than it imported for the week, as reported by Bloomberg. The U.S. did not become a net exporter of "crude oil," as some others in the energy news media mistakenly reported. As Robert Rapier reported at Forbes.com over the weekend, our country is still a sizable net importer of crude alone, an equation that will not be reversed anytime soon.    Regardless, the fact that the U.S. had higher volumes of oil-derived liquids moving out of its various ports than it had coming for a full week is an extraordinary change of circumstance from just a decade ago, a true sea change delivered by the ability to extract oil from the nation's shale formations. U.S. proved reserves for oil and natural gas rose to record levels in 2017. - The U.S. Energy Information Adminstration (EIA) reported on November 29 that the country's proved reserves of both oil and natural gas reached all-time record highs in 2017. As the report notes, reported reserves levels surpassed previous highs recorded in 2014 for natural gas and in 1970 for crude oil: Again, this is all due to the Shale Revolution, enabled by the wedding of hydraulic fracturing with horizontal drilling. The 1970 date of the previous high for U.S. crude oil reserves is notable because it was the year that "Peak Oil" theorist M. King Hubbert predicted that global crude oil production would reach its "peak" in the 1956 paper he presented to an API conference in San Antonio. Hubbert got that part of it kind of right, though he never envisioned that the industry would ultimately find a way to extract oil from shale and shatter all of the oil production records all over again. Today's "leave it in the ground"-motivated Peak Oil adherents now focus on ill-reasoned predictions of "peak demand" to support their calls for outlawing hyraulic fracturing. The growing sense of the sheer magnitude of the available resource - and the reality that developing nations all over the globe continue to require growing volumes of oil and gas to power their economies - means no one is talking about another supply "peak" taking place anytime soon. USGS releases an updated estimate on the Wolfcamp Shale. - Speaking of the magnitude of the available resource, the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) released an update to its previous estimates of the resource potential for the Wolfcamp Shale last week, and the volumes contained in the report, which assesses not just the Wolfcamp Shale itself, but also the conventional Bone Springs formation directly above it, are stunning to say the least: These numbers are almost incomprehensible to most people, so it helps to try to place them into some context: The natural gas assessment for these formations is especially striking to me, given that the Wolfcamp/Bone Springs - indeed, the entire Permian/Delaware Basin - is considered to be an oil play. All of that gas in place will be produced as "associated gas" coming from wells classified as "oil" wells by regulators in Texas and New Mexico. As a reminder, the USGS estimates are compiled using the most conservative means possible. They are derived from the "proved reserves" reported by companies to the SEC, and focus on "technically recoverable" resource, which means volumes that can be recovered using currently-available technology. Technology advances in the oil and gas industry each and every day, and as we have clearly seen over the last three years, the pace of advancement is only accelerating over time. So, as enormous and near-incomprehensible as those numbers are, it is important to remember that they are in fact a fraction of what the ultimate recoveries will turn out to be. It's an amazing business. 