"There is no power for change greater than a community discovering what it cares about." – Margaret J. Wheatley, Writer and expert on organizational behaviour  As we approach the year's end, we have witnessed a plethora of developments in the world of blockchain - new regulations, blockchain hubs in development and above all else, a vision of the future. Although the prices of cryptocurrencies have recently dropped, the dreams and visions haven’t and neither have the hardworking teams behind them. Actually, more blockchain work and activity than ever before is currently underway. Crypto markets have even been resilient to the growing worldwide concern of Trade Wars. Yet, there is one thing that always has to happen in order for mass-adoption to take place, and that is visuals.   "Life can only be understood backwards; but it must be lived forward." – Soren Kierkegaard, philosopher, theologian, poet and social critic     Film and cinema are the conveying factors that humanity is used to, and just like we enjoy Hollywood, it is only a matter of time before cinema makes its way into Blockchain, and really it of already has, at least to some extent. The Future is Now Documentary Film Series is one of those documentaries that you would expect to see on Discovery Channel or Vice News– a high production value documentary about the future of blockchain technology, bringing you right into the action of a crypto conference in a very cinematic and exciting way. The latest episode features Larry King going crypto, Ryan Taylor of Dash talking about the fall of Ethereum, Charles Hoskinson one of Ethereum’s original eight founders guiding the audience through the current state of crypto, and even Max Keiser with his raving expose of the big banks and centralized financial powers. The man behind the film series is Miguel Francis-Santiago, a 32-year-old American documentarist, TV Host and Blockchain evangelist. We spoke to this intriguing individual who has crafted a new way for himself and artistic appreciation in the blockchain world. “The essence of cinema is editing. It's the combination of what can be extraordinary images of people during emotional moments, or images in a general sense, put together in a kind of alchemy.” - Francis Ford Coppola How did you get into filmmaking and why Blockchain?  "I’ve been a filmmaker since my university days in Los Angeles, always shooting and editing things in the warm orange light of California. My major filming gig came with RT with its documentary channel. I’ve always found documentary films to be the best mediums for telling a story, and as I gotten into blockchain in the middle of 2017 with buying a few altcoins, and seeing them grow quite astronomically towards the end of the year, it kinda felt like freedom you know? So I began exploring making visuals that would help an average person get into this space. Eventually I was able to launch my own online show on RT called Cryptolium. I went around the world to the most exciting gatherings and saw amazing content wrapped around these visionaries of the future, the innovators of tomorrow trying to make a difference. It was amazing to become a part of this decentralized community and I saw it as an opportunity to grow in the space as a filmmaker and finally get away from politics".   Now it seems you are doing your own thing, The Future is Now, and as I understand its your own creation?  Well, both documentaries have been written, produced and directed by me, but yes ‘The Future is Now’ is a sort of a spin-off from ‘Cryptolium’ but quite a bit different, more cinematic and of course more free in what I can cover, film, edit etc. After-all decentralized media has no limits, and just like all industries, the media industry will be revamped and will see a change for the better with the coming of Blockchain. I’m talking about incentives to the audience for watching the content, tokenizing media platforms etc, there is so much to come from this it’s pretty amazing.   The crypto world has been prone to vlogs, and long interviews, how has documentary filmmaking been perceived by the fellow blockchainers?  "I really don’t do this to please anyone, I do this because I am a firm believer in this space and I value cinema and creating trust, building a connection with the viewer through emotions and feelings, this is the power of cinema, and that’s quite different than blogs or one subject interviews. I also feel that cinema is what the viewer is used to rather than a low production value vlog in the space. I mean not to offend any vloggers, they can deliver information and content much faster than I can in a film, but unlike a vlog, a film will stick in your heart and mind, if done right".    In the latest episode of ‘The Future is Now’ film series, you feature Larry King as part of guest speakers. What can you tell us about him going crypto?  "He is really a visionary. At 84 years old there so much to reflect on in the process of technology and futurism, if anyone’s really a futurist, its Larry. The way he looks at you is with the eyes of a curious child, and a mind and soul of a man who literally has seen it all. He spoke about the importance of being hungry for technology and looking towards better things in human nature. I won’t spoil the episode, but he gives a shivering comparison of good technology and bad technology in what he calls a “turning point of a time” we live in. Now to answer your question he came on-board a project called GEAR, a green-energy crypto mining company, to really explore the possibilities of this technology. In all our episodes we tend to speak to top philanthropists and thought leaders of the space like Tim Draper, and sometimes outside of the space as well like Guy Kawasaki. It’s great to see Larry King come on the inside of the blockchain world".   The third episode titled “Crypto Larry King” explores the present state of crypto regulation from a variety of perspectives. King also speaks about the realization of how steps in the right direction may take some time to finalize given the complexity and far-reaching applications of blockchain technology.  The episode also focuses on Malta and Bermuda, both as emerging and prospective blockchain hubs in the making. The island nations are young, tech-driven, and have decades of experience in nurturing IT businesses, existing IT hubs and also boost crypto friendly regulations. Francis speaks to Genesis Blockchain Technologies who will soon open their platform to trade for other independent blockchain coins, commodities, and precious metals. This will allow for the first time ever to trade commodities like crude oil and crypto like Ethereum on a single unified platform.  "Lastly, we realize the steps towards the true potential of blockchain in bringing easy banking services to the unbanked people of the world, which makes up over two-thirds of the adult population in the world. The film is quite long, just a bit over half an hour, yet it really flows and inspires warm and hopeful emotions about the space. After all, the crypto enthusiasts out there have built this space with a vision of hope for a better tomorrow, at least that’s the feeling you get when you watch features like this", Francis concludes.   