In describing the financial market jolts that began in October 2018, Claudio Borio, Head of the Economic and Monetary Department of the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) explained that “Faced with unprecedented initial conditions – extraordinarily low interest rates, bloated central bank balance sheets and high global indebtedness, both private and public – monetary policy normalization was bound to be challenging especially in light of trade tensions and political uncertainty.” Importantly, he pointed out that “The recent bump is likely to be just one in a series.” Investors, banks’ risk managers and bank regulators should be paying very close attention to Borio’s analysis as they think about how they will manage and supervise risks in 2019. Data in the BIS’ Quarterly Review released today and Borio’s comments highlight challenges, that in my view, are unlikely to be resolved in the near future: political and policy uncertainty in several key countries to financial markets, easy financial conditions as evidenced by the leveraged loan market, and the effect globally of changing U.S. monetary policy. There is always political and policy uncertainty somewhere in the world. Yet, I cannot recall a time in recent years where there is as much policy uncertainty as there is now and in countries to which financial institutions are exposed. In the U.S., eyes should be on whether Congress will be sufficiently functional next year to pass an infrastructure bill, which would be very helpful in creating jobs and helping us be competitive. If there were to be a government shutdown as President Trump is presently threatening, that would certainly be very costly as explained in this recent Congressional Research Service report and would possibly increase the probability of a recession. Unfortunately, throughout 2019, the roller coaster of trade tensions with China will continue to weigh on many sectors of the U.S. economy. As I have written previously, I am very concerned about lax underwriting standards and the high level of corporate debt, especially leveraged loans. According to Borio “from a longer-term perspective US financial conditions are still comparatively easy. This is so even if one considers the stock market rout– in fact, valuations remain rather elevated. Despite the steady increase in credit spreads, nowhere are easy financial conditions more evident than in the leveraged loan market, which continues to be overstretched. And the bulge of BBB corporate debt, just above junk status, hovers like a dark cloud over investors.” In what I interpret as a warning, Borio stated “Should this debt be downgraded if and when the economy weakened, it is bound to put substantial pressure on a market that is already quite illiquid and, in the process, to generate broader waves.” Across the Atlantic, there is probably even more policy uncertainty. It is very unclear how Brexit negotiations within the U.K. and with the European Union will play out; this is of special concern to American banks given that U.S. banks’ largest foreign exposure is to the U.K. I believe that internationally active banks will struggle with significant operational risk, especially if the U.K. does not remain part of the European Banking Union. On the continent, populist and anti-immigration movements could negatively impact budgets and economic growth if they get violent. Fitch Ratings, for example, stated on Friday that “The French government's response to recent social unrest points to continued challenges in reducing public debt.” Presently, Italy has the highest likelihood of rocking financial markets as the government is struggling with a significant deficit which it desperately needs to reduce to avoid European Union sanctions. Additionally, recent data suggest a slowdown in the demand for Italy’s 10-year bonds, making refinancing more challenging. Capital outflows have also increased significantly in recent months. The banks most exposed to Italy’s economic woes are of course the Italian ones, as well as German, French, and Spanish banks and the European Central Bank. European banks will pose a challenge to investors and bank regulators, because they are not fully compliant with important Basel III capital, liquidity, and leverage requirements. Moreover, some European banks still have quite a relatively high stock of non-performing loans. Other European banks, such as Deutsche Bank, continue to struggle with its business strategy as well as numerous regulatory breaches. The main challenge of European banks is their low profitability, especially in comparison to banks in the U.S. Profitability matters because it is the first defense against economic and market shocks. Fortunately, emerging markets were calmer this last quarter, partly because the effect of a higher U.S. dollar was more muted and because emerging markets had already taken quite a beating earlier in the year. Many investors took advantage of lower prices in emerging market stock markets, and capital flows into emerging markets increased in comparison to previous quarters this year. Additionally, lower oil prices also helped those emerging market countries that are oil importers. However, if U.S. continues to raise rates in 2019, this will continue to be adverse for emerging markets. Moreover, investors should brace themselves for significant economic challenges in China. This year, Chinese economic growth decelerated. I anticipate that Chinese authorities will continue their deleveraging policies in order to allay concerns of potential problems with financial stability. These days all advanced and emerging market countries are sensitive to the Chinese economy; yet Asian emerging markets are even more so. In Latin America, investors should be ready for lots of policy uncertainty in Brazil and Mexico, as their new presidents lay out important fiscal reforms. In Argentina, there will be plenty of political uncertainty, since 2019 is an election year which will take place in a country in an economic crisis. Ahead of 2019, this is a good time for investors and bank risk managers to review the level of diversification in their portfolios, enterprise wide, and whether risk derivatives for hedging purposes need to be recalibrated; risk managers should also increase their level of capital to sustain unexpected losses. Internal and external auditors should review financial institutions’ internal controls and governance practices now. Also, very important is for information technology professionals and data scientists to test the quality, availability, completeness, and timeliness of risk data to measure their firms' credit, market, operational and liquidity risks. None of these aforementioned professionals should wait until increased periods of volatility or a recession to discover problems in their ability to identify, measure, control, and monitor risks. 