It's been a very volatile year for oil prices. 2018 was marked with some of the highest prices that market has seen in almost four years, but also some of the largest single-day drops. [Is the bull market in U.S. stocks over or merely taking a pause? Regardless, Forbes' Smart Money Moves For 2019 package has you covered.] Geopolitical concerns, financial moves and supply and demand have been the culprits, along with the occasional well-timed tweet from President Trump. 2019 is shaping up to be an even more volatile year. Here are some of the major issues to look for next year. Cracks in the OPEC consensus The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its cooperation agreement with Russia faced a major test at the end of 2018 as producers met in Vienna to try and reduce production to combat falling prices. After a full day of negotiations, OPEC minsters were unable to reach a consensus. Iran refused to commit to an across the board production cut and demanded an outright exemption from any cuts due to the newly imposed sanctions on its oil industry by the United States. Tensions rose after oil minister Khalid al Falih was reported to have said he was not confident that OPEC ministers could agree to a deal. OPEC extended its negotiations into the next day, but only reached an agreement after Russian oil minister Alexander Novak arrived and met separately with the Iranians and the Saudis. Finally, OPEC agreed to cut production by 2.5% from October levels. Iran received a de facto exemption because its production has already declined due to the U.S. sanctions. This was quickly followed by an agreement from the non-OPEC participants to cut their production by 2%, with Russia shouldering most of the burden. Without Russia, OPEC might not have been able to reach an agreement to cut production. Heading in 2019, oil markets can expect to see slight declines in production from most OPEC countries and larger cuts from Saudi Arabia. However, these cuts will only provide guidance for a few months, as the agreement will br reviewed in April, less than 5 months after going into effect. The timing will coincide with the date at which the U.S. will be reviewing the exemptions it granted to eight countries to continue importing Iranian oil. Right now, the U.S. government is signaling that these exemptions will not be renewed, meaning additional Iranian oil will come off the market. However, the U.S. has been known to change its mind on the Iran sanctions at the last minute. If the exemptions are not renewed, OPEC and Russia will have to debate whether to increase production and satisfy U.S. President Donald Trump, or renew their production cuts and push prices higher. Major players Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Russia are not likely to see eye-to-eye, so we can expect a high degree of volatility in oil markets. U.S. oil production hits record levels In the United States, oil production from shale regions reached 11.4 million barrels per day in 2018. Combined U.S. exports of petroleum products and crude oil finally returned the U.S. to net exporter status. This was a significant accomplishment, particularly with the infrastructure constraints in the Permian and elsewhere. We can expect even higher production in 2019 as more pipelines come online and relieve the overburdened system. Exports will trend higher as well because more pipelines are set to come online in 2019 and it will become easier to move this oil from producing regions to refineries and ports. However, most of this oil is a very light type of crude oil which is not sought after by global refiners. Shale oil producers will have to offer greater discounts as more of their light oil reaches the global marketplace and this will limit the profitability of shale oil producers in 2019. Global demand for oil may slow Demand for oil has been very strong over the past several years, but signs point to a slow down in demand growth in 2019. A variety of global economic indicators are signaling an impending world wide economic slowdown that could push oil prices down in 2019. However, it is possible that low oil prices could stimulate demand as economies like China purchase more crude for storage and higher margins for refineries promote greater refining activity. Chinese consumption could help stimulate oil demand in 2019 and keep prices from falling too significantly. Uncertainty over sanctions on Iran’s oil industry President Trump threw oil markets for a loop when his administration announced exemptions for eight countries to continue importing limited amounts of Iranian oil for 180 days beyond the sanctions implementation deadline of November 5. Oil prices dropped markedly once it became clear that at least 1 million barrels per day more Iranian oil would remain on the market than had been expected. However, there is a great deal of uncertainty surrounding the implementation of these expeditions. Several importing countries have not made arrangements to purchase Iranian oil until at least February 2019 and, given the restrictions on payment and tanker insurance, they may forego purchases of Iranian oil altogether. According to TankerTrackers.com, Iran’s oil exports hit new lows of 1.15 million barrels per day in November and unless exempted countries make arrangements to purchase that oil legally, that number is likely to fall further in 2019. In April, the U.S. will review these exemptions and current indications are that importers of Iranian oil will be expected to cut their purchases to zero. The recent arrest and extradition of Huawei CFO Meng Wanzhou for violating the previous round of sanctions on Iran is indication that the U.S. will impose harsh penalties on those who violate the sanctions. This would put upwards pressure on oil prices. If oil prices look like they are rising too high for President Trump (meaning prices over $70 for WTI and $80 for Brent) it is possible that his administration could renew the exemptions for another 180 days. It would not be out of character for this decision to occur at the last minute, injecting further instability into the oil market and possibly causing a sudden drop in prices.