Unlike the stock and bond markets the oil futures pits are open for trading today. A quick glance at the CME’s website shows an oil price of $53.28, a gain of 28 cents on the day. Volume is below normal and I believe this is the calm before the storm ahead of OPEC’s meeting in Geneva on Thursday. Longtime energy industry observer Tom Petrie once told me and a crowd of others gathered in an aromatic rodeo ring in Midland, Texas that “OPEC meetings are scripted in advance.” I believe that is the case here. OPEC's economic advisory panel--the JMMC--last week recommended a production cut of 1.3 million barrels per day (mmbpd) from the cartel. Taking into account the normal intra-cartel horse trading, I would expect the final OPEC release to reflect a production reduction in the 1.0-1.5 mmbpd range. So, the media will focus on the movement in the front-month contract for crude futures (the January contract, which concludes trading on December 20th) but intraday volatility should not be confused with supply/demand rebalancing. That can only occur over time, and actually in fact has already happened. That January 2019 WTI crude oil futures contract has had a wild existence, but is informative to look at where it stood one year ago today. Oil producers focus on "the strip," the curve of future months’ contract prices, not the current month’s futures price as oil wells take months to drill and turn to sales. One year ago today, the January 2019 contract was trading at $54.80. Fast forward twelve months and adjust to the relevant contract and we see that today the January 2020 contract is trading at $54.89. The outlook for the next twelve months looks the same as it did twelve months ago, and the excess production that the U.S producers brought on line didn't accomplish the main objectives of either the bulls or the hears. U.S production last week was 11.7 million barrels per day, and increase of 2 million barrels per day over the figure for the same week in 2017. The bears were telling us at this time last year that such a production increase would crash the oil markets and send crude to $40 a barrel. It's been a brutal month for longs, but that has to be judged in the lens of a dramatic summer rally in crude. Really we're just back where we started, and that shows the market was able to absorb that incremental 2 million barrels per day. The bulls would have had you think that such robust U.S production growth would have brought a new prosperity to the U.S oil industry, and that has not happened either. The U.S. oil exploration and production sector ETF, XOP, has been a dreadful performer in 2018, posting a 14.3% loss thus far. Also, the pronounced weakness in energy bond pricing in the past two weeks has caused the broader market for high-yield debt to sell-off significantly. So, as so often happens, both the bulls and the bears had exaggerated positions, and the laws of supply and demand have both us back to where we were a year ago. OPEC can only impact the supply side of the equation, and working in concert with Russia, Oman and other members of the loosely-affiliated “OPEC+” group, I believe a consensus for a cut on the 1.0-1.5 mm barrels per day will be announced after OPEC's Thursday plenary session in Vienna. So all that's left is for U.S producers to show restraint, and both the stock and bond markets are telling them that such a move is warranted. Energy investors are laser-focused on capital expenditures, and I can't believe any oil company CEO is going to face investors in late-2018 with a 2019 plan that calls for aggressive capex expansion. It is not the time to drill, baby, drill, and market forces can be just as impactful as a roomful of gentlemen in kaffiyehs. So, I'll be watching developments from OPEC closely Thursday in addition to watching the U.S. stock market's reaction to Tuesday's nasty yield curve driven sell-off, which I explained in my Forbes column yesterday. I have been bullish on natural gas throughout the fall and that has been a lucrative call, but now it is time for the crude oil markets to regain their footing. Crude will always be the big dog in the energy markets, and with all eyes on Vienna, I expect a kinder, gentler OPEC (excepting the occasional use of a bone saw by member countries) to set the tone for a solid rise in oil prices. I see crude prices rising back to $60 per barrel on the U.S. benchmark (WTI) and $70 per barrel on the European benchmark (Brent) as the calendar turns from 2018 to 2019 and I expect much less volatility in the next month’s oil futures trading than we have seen in the past month’s.