OPEC collectively did the right thing Friday in Vienna, albeit with its usual dramatic flourish, as the Wall Street Journal and other sources are reporting an agreement between the cartel and its “OPEC+” partners to reduce in crude oil output by 1.2 mm billion barrels per day (mmbpd.) Details are sketchy at this point, but those same reports have indicate that OPEC will shoulder 0.8 mmbpd of the cuts with the “+” members--most notably Russia--cutting by a collective 0.4 mmbpd. This reduction is enough, in my opinion, to bring the world oil markets back into balance. Crude oil traders seem to agree with me this morning, with West Texas Intermediate crude oil futures rising more than $2/bbl--nearly 4%--in early trading and the more widely-followed European crude oil benchmark, Brent, trading up nearly 5% this morning at $63/bbl. So, managements at U.S. oil exploration and production companies (E&Ps) must be breathing a sigh of relief this morning. The disastrous OPEC decision to increase production at the now-infamous Thanksgiving 2014 meeting did not recur. In my Forbes column Wednesday I called this a kindler, gentler OPEC, and the diplomatic spirit of Bush 41 was evident in OPEC’s wise choice to rein in production going forward.     Those E&P managements are often wrongly accused of creating the perceived imbalance in the global oil market, but a quick glance at yesterday's Weekly Petroleum Status Report published by the U.S. Energy Information Administration shows that perception is a false one. U.S. domestic crude oil production averaged 11.700 mmbpd last week, an increase of 1.993 mmbpd from the year ago figure of 9.707 mmbpd. U.S. net imports of crude, however, decreased sharply in that year-over-year analysis with last week’s figure of 4.016 mmbpd showing a 1.828 mmbpd decline from the year ago figure. So, the delta in production was nearly offset by the decline in imports, and the remainder of 165,00 barrels per day can be considered a rounding error, since the EIA’s figures are not that accurate, anyway. Oil traders are not quite holding hands and singing kumbaya in the NYMEX pits today, but the dire “oil’s going to $40” predictions that I heard so often from financial commentators as the crude price declined sharply in October and November have proved to be worthless. The global oil markets are structurally sound and in balance now. That proclamation will not win me any invitations to go on financial TV and bloviate about oil stocks, but it is the truth nonetheless.  