Yesterday (Monday, 12/10) is the perfect example of the futility in trying to answer “Why the morning selloff?” The answer is not in the fundamentals, although the media certainly tried. All the early morning reports offered reasons, but the very range shows them to be inaccurate guesses: Underscoring the wrongness of shopping for fundamental reasons is the complete reversal later in the day. Are we to believe that the market had fully recovered from all those ailments? Of course not. Important: And that goes for today’s stock market opening rise driven by happy tariff news! There are two causes of this volatility: 1. The arrival of the bear market Here we were, enjoying the bull market’s new highs when – Wham! – the bear bursts in and knocks the market down. With all the dust in the air, we, in rose-colored glasses, could not see the bear – but his effect was certainly unnerving. Hence, volatility rose. At this point, investors and fundamentals ruled the thinking and buying/selling. Therefore, the great hunt for what just happened started. There were lots of fundamental hypotheses, but only one seemed to fit the bill of being able to affect the whole stock market and being a major shift from full-on bull market: The prospect of slowing growth. Now came the messiness that accompanies all serious trend shifts, with investors in various states of mind working with only scanty fundamental proof that a future risk was looming large. The potpourri of beliefs and attitudes towards stocks and their prices necessarily led to volatility. We are still in the jerky changeover. Proof is the headlines that range between the extremes of seeing the bull market still in effect to the view that a crash is happening. However, as I discussed yesterday, the market’s persistent high volatility and loss-producing declines have discouraged many investors from taking action – either to sell “at these prices” or to “buy on the dip.” Instead, they are sitting back. (The one exception is the usual December “loss harvesting” for tax purposes. If it is significant this year, it could temper any price run-ups.) This dwindling investor participation in the stock market means… 2. Traders rule Traders are not short-term investors. They do not view volatility as a risk, but as an opportunity. Yesterday’s 500-point down and 500-point up moves are an unnerving mystery to investors. However, they are happy feasts for traders. Therefore, as the bear becomes more evident, the breadth of fundamental worries expands, the possibility of recession increases and investors pull back, traders take over. So, what should an investor do? There are important steps to take: The bottom line This bear market is volatile, and the volatility lovers – traders - are driving it. As a result, we must both adjust our thinking and protect ourselves from a bear market’s enticements and fear mongering. Note: I have been writing about this bear market since October 17. See the list here. Disclosure: Author holds only cash reserves 