While the U.S.-China trade war installs a cease-fire, there is an emerging opportunity for us to better link with our European allies to supply them more energy. After all, Europe has long sought to lower an over reliance on Russian oil and natural gas, and an expanding capacity for the U.S. to export these essential fuels now seems a perfect fit. U.S. gas especially is the clear need for Europe, with the U.S. having mushrooming LNG export terminals along its Gulf Coast and a facility in Maryland. Moreover, Europe's gas demand has been very high, while oil usage has been declining. More politically risky Russia meets 40% of the continent's gas needs. Although clearly not surging, Europe's gas demand is not declining either Despite years of obsessing to "get off fossil fuels," there has been no absolute decline in Europe's gas needs (see Figure). In fact, Europe's gas demand in 2017 was the highest it has been since 2010. And over the past three years, consumption is up nearly 20%. Looking forward, the International Energy Agency reports that gas now supplies about 24% of Europe's energy needs, and that will rise to around 30% in the years ahead as oil, coal, and nuclear all confront a major reduction in market share. For example, gas power generation capacity will boom from 270 GW to closer to 390 GW by 2040: "The Rise of Natural Gas Generation in Europe." And more gas-based electricity needs could rise even more than projected if wind and solar fail to deliver as expected. This is in fact a likelihood because natural intermittency means that actual generation additions for wind and solar typically fall well below their capacity additions. Additionally, the nuclear phase-out of nuclear in Germany, France, and elsewhere will clearly mean more reliance on gas power. Europe's coming rise in gas demand explains why U.S. President Trump envisions "vast amounts" of U.S. gas going to Europe. The continent, however, does have 28 large-scale import terminals but utilizations rates are often quite low, under 30% in many cases. Most LNG focus has been to better-priced markets in the Middle East and Asia. Yet, LNG import terminal operators are always seeking new ways to up capacity utilization and ensure that LNG is commercially viable for customers. For his part, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker's promise for more import terminals and related infrastructure will be a challenged since governments cannot simply sway the private companies involved. We do know that Europe's gas import needs will steadily rise. Europe’s declining gas production from the North Sea, Norway, and the Netherlands offers a growing gap for LNG shippers to fill. Europe's gas production will at least be sliced in half over the next 20 years. And the European Union, for instance, will be extending its import reliance from 70% to over 90%. Politically, even having the ability to import more U.S. LNG is crucial for Europe. Access to affordable and reliable American gas creates huge negotiating power. Russia's Gazprom has already had to amend its contracts because of it. Diversification of supply is required to improve energy security for a continent that has been saddled with poor energy security rankings. Here in the U.S., the new Congress must do its part as well. Wisely, U.S. LNG exports have long had bipartisan support. U.S. legislation still requires prior regulatory approval for LNG exports to Europe, even as we seek to help these allies lower their over reliance on Russia. Our rules must be made easier for our LNG sellers Ultimately though, market forces will mostly determine how much market share we can gain in Europe. Although some eastern European friends have indicated that they would be willing to pay more for U.S. LNG just to help loosen Russia's grip, in the end it really will be "all about the money." To illustrate, the ongoing riots in Paris against a carbon tax show how even the Europeans, who for too long have been too tolerant of purposely higher energy costs designed to lower usage and "fight climate change," can only be so patient of exorbitant costs. As for mighty Russia, the ongoing fight over Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline to more directly connect it with Germany illustrates how Vladimir Putin will hardly be going "gentle into that good night" when it comes to supplying energy to the world's richest continent. I surmise, however, that both Russian and American gas can co-exist in Europe. Indeed, the Charles River Associates report that "U.S. LNG will soon have a substantial market share in Europe," with more U.S. supplies even capable of changing the pricing dynamics of the European gas market.