Brexit fix? Merkel's last licks and Mueller's tricks (+oil market/trade war updates on the app) Whether or not Prime Minister May’s seemingly doomed Brexit vote happens on Tuesday, the end result will not be hard Brexit; indeed, as we have argued for well over a year, a ‘soft Brexit’ deal like May’s remains the most likely future for the U.K. and the EU, with a new referendum (possibly leading to “remain”) now emerging as the second most likely scenario. May herself has time to try again and even if she loses the House of Commons’ confidence, both votes will probably reveal that her hard Brexit rivals (like Johnson and Gove) are as isolated in parliament as they are in the public and thus unlikely to win the day. As a result, the risk of a new, Tory-destructive election and/or a second referendum should keep these Brexit hardliners behind May or a fellow soft Brexit Conservative. Merkel hangs on -- for now Per our previous Insight, German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s surprising resignation as leader of the CDU in November was part of an attempt to manage her succession after very poor showings in regional elections. This strategy appears to have paid off for now, with Merkel’s preferred candidate, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, defeating challengers from her (and Merkel’s) right flank to win the CDU leadership in Friday’s party election. The election was close, with CDU legislators and party members choosing Kramp 52% to 48% in the second round. Recall that the CDU has been losing ground to the right-wing nationalist Alternative for Germany (AfD) party, mirrored by a significant increase in German Populism Risk. CDU legislators, well aware of the electoral pressure, would like a party leader who can recapture that support. And while Friedrich Merz -- a hardline conservative, longtime Merkel adversary and the alternative candidate to Kramp-Karrenbauer -- provided just such an option, a Merz win as CDU leader would have precipitated an intra-CDU fight that would threaten the viability of Merkel’s government. CDU backbenchers were unwilling to be the authors of Merkel’s political demise quite yet, preferring to wait for their left-of-center CSU coalition partners to do that dirty work for them. Indeed, Chancellor Merkel is unlikely to survive in office much beyond 2019. GeoQuant’s Government Risk indicator tracks this risk downward into 2019, but will likely turn up as the SPD takes steps to counter its own anti-establishment erosion of voter support to the Green Party (as well as the AfD). In short, the SPD is looking to reposition itself and will likely pull out of the coalition at some point well before Merkel’s term ends, likely by late 2019. Merz and his supporters are likely biding their time until then. More Mueller Risk for Trump Unsurprisingly, last week’s frenzy of legal developments in the Mueller probe and related filings by the U.S. Department of Justice’s Southern District of New York means more ‘Mueller risk’ for the Trump administration this week -- a trend that is set to continue through year-end. We won’t (and frankly, can’t) speculate on whether the special counsel’s long-awaited report will be released in this span, but we will continue to harp on the market’s growing sensitivity to U.S. political risks, including Institutional Risk from potentially de-stabilizing political conflicts like Trump vs. Mueller. And Finally: Looser Oil and Tighter Trade... Updates to our ongoing analyses of oil market risk (following last week’s OPEC meeting) and new developments affecting Chinese Investment/Trade Policy Risk (including the arrest of Huawei’s CFO and the EU’s rapidly advancing investment screening mechanism) are now available on the app. 