Teamwork, collaboration, and having a “warrior spirit” reign king at Southwest Airlines. For almost 30 years, Tammy Romo – now Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer of Southwest – has been part of an organization that values their customers and is adamant about providing a superior customer experience. Understanding the power of partnerships, she has excelled by working together with various departments to increase internal efficiency and improve decision making. I recently spoke with Tammy about how Southwest has enjoyed continued success while sticking to their core philosophies of business and culture. Jeff Thomson: You’ve had a storied career at Southwest, first beginning in 1991 as a manager of financial reporting. What does it mean to you to have grown alongside your company? What are some differences you see in the finance and accounting function, from when Southwest was a small regional carrier to a now global airline and innovative powerhouse? What are the biggest changes in finance and accounting you’ve witnessed in your tenure? How does finance support service and marketing i.e. through data analytics, customer segmentation? Tammy Romo: I love what we do every day. I believe we make a difference in people’s lives. To have been a part of the evolution of Southwest Airlines for the past 27 years has been a true honor and privilege. Honestly, my goal when I started in 1991 is the same today: to leave Southwest Airlines in a better position than when I arrived for the next generation. Some of the biggest changes that first come to mind are: As far as supporting service and marketing, our financial planning and analysis team uses data analytics to support a variety of analyses, including those impacting marketing, such as our Frequent Flyer Program and various promotions offered. Our corporate strategy department also has their own dedicated data analytics team to support better management of information and decision making across our business to continuously help drive operational efficiencies and enhance customer experience. Thomson: It’s not unique to be at a company for more than 20 years, but it’s certainly considered rare. What about Southwest’s culture do you feel supports this level of employee retention? As a CFO, what qualities are you looking for in finance and accounting candidates? What are the must-have skills entry-level finance professionals need to grow and succeed as you have? Romo: Our people and our culture are by far two of our key strengths at Southwest Airlines. We have a very caring culture. It’s the culture this company was founded on with 195 employees in our first year, and one that we work extremely hard today to protect even at 58,000-plus strong. It’s one of the key reasons we’ve been recognized for 24 straight years as one of FORTUNE magazine’s Most Admired Companies. As employees, we celebrate one another and we take time to appreciate each other. We come together, as a Southwest family, to provide incredible customer service. As a CFO, I really believe you have to have a strong mind, but what makes Southwest so strong is we combine a strong mind with a strong heart; this is what we look for in all candidates seeking to join the Southwest family. Of course, entry-level finance candidates are expected to have certain professional competencies, including the ability to ensure accountability, communicate effectively, manage complexity, and drive engagement. Each individual that joins Southwest makes a difference, whether it’s flying the planes or booking the accounting entries. We are driven by our purpose: connecting people to what's important in their lives through friendly, reliable, and low-cost air travel. It takes all of us working together as a team to accomplish our vision to be the world’s most loved, most flown, and most profitable airline. This instills ownership and pride because we all have such a meaningful purpose. Thomson: Being adaptable to change is a key attribute of successful companies like Southwest. Your company had to adapt to unexpected shocks like 9/11 and the 2007 recession. How does your finance team account for and respond to forces for which they cannot plan? In your opinion, what is the greatest hurdle facing the airlines industry today and how is Southwest responding to it? Romo: “Warrior spirit” is a term we use often at Southwest, and with good reason. It’s what our employees voluntarily exhibit as we work together to serve our customers with 4,000 weekday flights. Our finance team is no exception, especially when it comes to responding and managing through the impacts of unexpected events. We are in a challenging and highly regulated industry that is energy, capital and labor intensive. Being able to respond to forces we cannot plan starts with being prepared, especially with respect to our finances. The philosophy of managing in good times so that we are prepared for bad times has always served us well. Even in the wake of 9/11, we managed to make a profit in the fourth quarter of 2001. And, unlike many of our competitors, we did so without laying off employees or cutting their pay. While the airline industry today is delivering healthy margins and returns, inflation and oil prices are trending higher, giving rise to the need for increased focus on cost pressures and revenue trends. With the successful implementation of our new reservation system and other revenue-generating initiatives such as our revamped Rapid Rewards program behind us, our top priority in 2019 will be controlling costs. Southwest Airlines remains steadfast in its focus to sustain our proven track record, unmatched in the airline industry, of preserving our profitability, as well as maintaining a balanced approach to managing our capital with our goal to return value to all of our stakeholders. As one of the leading low-cost carriers with an investment grade balance sheet and strong cash flow position, we are poised for prudent growth of our point-to-point flight network, including our upcoming and very exciting plans to serve Hawaii. Thomson: Southwest has built its reputation around being a low-cost carrier – one who does not charge fees for switching flights. Despite this, the company broke the top ten list for Airline Weekly’s 2018 annual Global Earnings Scorecard. It’s clear by looking at these rankings that you’re a strong competitor compared to your higher-priced counterparts. How does your low-cost model ultimately drive greater profit and growth? Romo: We are a low fare airline by philosophy. From our beginnings, low fares have been our brand promise to our customers. Low costs enable low fares. Our ability to consistently deliver a high quality, low fare customer experience relies on our ability to preserve our low-cost structure. Low-cost is part of our culture and DNA. As we were getting off the ground in the early 1970s, we implemented the 10-minute turn to maintain our flight schedule when we were forced to sell one of our four aircrafts to make payroll and stay in business. While it is not possible to turn our planes in 10 minutes today, our innovative spirit and survival instincts are alive and well. We are continually looking for better ways to eliminate waste and drive efficiencies in everything we do and embrace technology-driven solutions to drive both cost and customer service benefits. Southwest’s low-cost model is made possible by being the most productive, the most reliable and the most efficient airline. All combined, our point-to-point route system, frequent flights, careful airport selection, single aircraft type, high asset utilization, fuel conservation and hedging programs and high employee productivity produce a very safe, efficient, and cost-effective operation that has served as the foundation of our business model and a key driver of our 45 years of consecutive profitability. Thomson: The airline industry is dependent on digital technology. With the rapid pace of technological advancement, how do you decide where to invest and innovate? How closely do you partner with other departments, specifically Southwest’s technology department, to ensure you’re not just latching onto recent trends, but truly investing in technologies that will have strong ROI for the long-term? What are the competencies needed to support the digitization of the value chain? Romo: Southwest has often been referred to as a “maverick” when it comes to how we have chosen to evolve our business while maintaining commitment to our low-cost model. We are thoughtful about maintaining a balanced approach to our investments while striving to maximize the long-term return. We partner closely with our technology team, along with any other department impacted by a proposed business case for new investment and/or innovation, to seek their expertise and guidance. Our corporate strategy, innovation and financial planning & analysis departments all report to me, which fosters great partnership and prudent analysis among all planning teams and across finance. The successful transformation of Southwest has involved significant advancements in technology delivery and improved business processes. As an example, we successfully implemented a new reservation system to support network growth and provide significant revenue opportunities. We are also on a journey to modernize our operating systems. We’re focused on enhancing customer service as well as lowering our cost through automation. With regards to competencies needed to support the digitization of the value chain, we will continue to look for strong minds and strong hearts. Of course, having knowledge of big data and analytical expertise along with new technologies will also be important.