As if oil markets needed any more bears lurking about, the U.S. Federal Reserve has emerged as yet another factor driving negative sentiment. The Fed, sometimes referred to as the world’s bank because of its global influence, raised interest rates on Tuesday and oil prices responded by hitting a 17-month low. Worldwide benchmark Brent crude lost nearly $5 per barrel this week and now trades under $55, while U.S. crude is down to about $46 per barrel. The Fed’s interest rate hike has several effects on oil markets, none of them particularly positive for prices. An increase in interest rates strengthens the U.S. dollar, the principal currency used in oil trading, making crude and oil products more expensive for consumers using other currencies. This can hurt global oil demand, where analysts are already concerned about the impact of slowing global economic growth. The phenomenon has been compounded in several emerging markets where local currencies have fallen in value this year, including India, Turkey and South Africa. This is critical because emerging markets are the primary driver for growth in global oil demand. Take India, the world’s third largest consumer which imports 80% of its oil needs. New Delhi just revised down its fuel demand projection for India’s current fiscal year by 1.3% to 211.03 million tons despite the recent 35% plunge in crude prices since October, which has made energy cheaper. The forecast cut comes after India reported that oil product consumption in November contracted for the first time in over a year. Weakness in the Indian rupee is partly to blame, with the currency down about 10% this year against the dollar – its worst annual performance since 2013. Such effects are taken collectively across emerging markets, including top oil importer China, can add up. Vienna-based consultant JBC Energy recently cut its 2019 global oil demand growth forecast to 888,000 barrels a day, which would be the slowest rate since 2011. Global oil demand growth typically clocks in around 1.5 million barrels a day. So far, leading organizations like the International Energy Agency and OPEC don’t see it straying too far from that pace. But the deterioration of leading economic indicators, carnage in stock markets and, most importantly, the continuation of the U.S.-China trade war, which shows no sign of abating, have raised alarms. In other words, the outlook could change quickly. The Fed’s policy moves reverberate around the world, influencing the decisions of businesses and consumers by shaping the cost of credit and the values of stocks, currencies and real estate. The recent hike, as well the Fed’s plan to increase interest rates two more times in 2019, has prompted investors to pull away from so-called “risk assets,” such as equities and commodities, in favor of safer places to park their cash. Investors, as well as President Donald Trump, had hoped for a more dovish tone from the Fed on interest rates this week, with some even betting the central bank might hold off on the increase altogether amid concerns over slowing global growth. That did not happen, however. Instead, the Fed’s decision gave already bearish oil traders more reasons to fret about oil demand, at a time when the dominant issue driving sentiment is the surplus in ready oil supply. Putting the emphasis back on the supply-demand imbalance and mounting inventories is not what the faltering oil market needs right now. It’s clear that no help will come from the Fed, which in turn puts the focus squarely on OPEC and Russia’s oil supply management efforts. Their deal to reduce production by 1.2 million barrels a day for six months, starting on January 1, will be monitored more closely now, with any slip-ups in compliance likely to take prices even lower. Even with 100% compliance, I’m not alone in believing the OPEC deal alone is insufficient to balance the oil market. For now, though, it's all the market has for support. 