Forbes' expert aviation contributors see change in the air next year. From airline M&A to advances in technologies that will change the passenger experience to a slowdown in the torrent of outbound Chinese travel, here are their predictions for 2019.  Samuel Engel, managing director of aviation at the consultancy ICF THE BIG TREND: Declining profitability, at least for the U.S. carriers. As the economy slows, it will be hard for demand to keep up with rising capacity and costs. WHAT TO WATCH: Amazon’s expansion into the aviation space. By the end of 2019, Amazon’s Prime logistics will have all the pieces of a major integrator, like UPS and FedEx (5th largest fleet in the world?): aircraft, distribution centers, last mile delivery, scalable IT platform and customer contact.  THE UNCONVENTIONAL WISDOM: Passengers want biometrics. Biometrics help tighten security and can be used to speed immigration, but it will be several more years before biometrics are consistently able to speed passenger boarding. And overhead bins will still be the constraint. Glenn Hollister, head of the travel and transportation practice at ZS Associates THE BIG TREND: Distribution of airline tickets will actually start to experience the upheaval everyone has predicted for years as direct connects build volume and a technology called the New Distribution Capability (NDC) becomes a reality.  THE UNCONVENTIONAL WISDOM: As segmentation (e.g. basic economy) and new products (premium economy) penetrate most of the U.S. airline industry, the noise around overcrowding on airplanes and related topics will begin to slow down  THE MISPLACED ASSUMPTION: That fuel prices will drive airline profitability. Actually it will be demand – the economy – that determines airlines’ fate.  A BOLD PREDICTION: We will see one, or possibly even two airline mergers in the U.S. in 2019. Most likely would be an ULCC tie up (two out of Frontier, Spirit, Allegiant) with the less likely being a combination between two of: Jet Blue, Alaska and Hawaiian. Michael Boyd, head of the aviation consultancy Boyd Group International THE BIG TREND: Stability and growth for the airline industry. It’s just about all good news, with financial and operational stability — at least through the end of the third quarter. There are no material outside shocks expected. Oil will likely stay under $70-$80. Labor costs will go up, but they can be absorbed.  WHAT TO WATCH: 1) The ULCC model is providing air travel as a spend-choice competing with other uses of discretionary dollars. Mostly, it is not focused on core travel demand. Therefore, any material shifts in levels of discretionary spending could hit this segment first – and that includes spikes in such spending. 2) Continued regionalization of U.S. air service access. Amid significant hub-spoke expansion at three of the four major network carriers at mid-size airports, it’s now time for smaller communities to recognize that air access – not flights at the local airport – is the future. Consumers in places like Youngstown and Topeka have excellent air access, but it’s at airports other than the local one. Their strategy needs to change from chasing air service that will never come back to the local airport, to developing regional planning to remain connected to the global economy.  THE UNCONVENTIONAL WISDOM: Supersonic air travel will come sooner than expected. For airline operations, the realities of global time zones demand that any such aircraft be capable of a minimum of 2.0 Mach. There is one aircraft now well in progress, being developed by Boom Technologies. Watch for major orders by the fourth quarter of 2019.  A BOLD PREDICTION: The boom in China-U.S. travel and Chinese investment in the U.S. are facing potential headwinds, and could significantly deflate by the end of 2019. In travel it’s going to be an inside job on the China side of the Pacific, and not driven by any trade issues between the two countries. Instead, look to the exhaustion of discretionary spending that was created by real estate booms in China, and troubling indications coming from President Xi’s administration that point to restored government intervention in the personal lives of Chinese citizens. It will affect all outbound leisure travel, not just to the U.S., and it’s the Chinese carriers that face the major downsides.  For a more detailed version of Boyd's outlook, click here. Dan Reed, freelance journalist who’s written for the Fort Worth Star-Telegram and USA TODAY. THE BIG TREND: Rising consumer and political criticism of U.S. airlines related to seating discomfort. Congress passed a law in 2018 reauthorizing the FAA for five more years that including directions to the FAA to establish minimum seat size and leg room standards for the industry. The FAA could require airlines to add inches taken away in the last few years from passengers who buy the cheapest fares. Don’t bet on it. More likely: an FAA decision establishing a floor at or near the current tight dimensions, an action that will trigger growing complaints from both consumers and Congress. The big question is whether airlines will care enough to respond positively.  WHAT TO WATCH: Oil prices. Right now the global supply of oil is growing more than demand, thus we have the lowest oil prices in several years. There’s no indication that the oil supply situation is going to change in 2019, but historically such changes have happened with little advance warning. If oil rises, fares likely would rise, too from their current inflation-adjusted record low.  THE UNCONVENTIONAL WISDOM: Changes at or near the top of one or more of the nation’s biggest airlines are increasingly likely. Airlines are continuing their unprecedented string of profitable years, but each of the last couple of years have seen steps down in net and operating profits and some stagnation in airlines’ ability it drive higher unit revenues. With labor increasingly calling for a bigger share of the profit pie, a potential economic slowdown ahead, and the industry’s next round of contract talks coming in late 2019 and 2020, airline board members could begin examining whether the people who oversaw the big carriers’ record profits a few years ago are the right people to lead them through the next set of challenges.  THE MISPLACED ASSUMPTION: That the unprecedented string of profits airlines have seen since 2014 are here to stay. Certainly the profits picture and the industry’s economic equation have been greatly improved from the industry’s tumultuous first 80 years of (mini) boom and bust cyclicality. But there’s no guarantee that the factors that drove that unhealthy cyclicality — rising labor costs, higher energy prices, out-of-control debt, market share wars, profligate corporate spending and managerial arrogance — can’t blossom again.  A BOLD PREDICTION: The industry’s on-time arrival performance has been shameful for 40 years, and the only reason it appears to have gotten better in the last few years is that carriers have been padding their scheduled flight times. In 2019, one or two carriers – probably an unconventional one focused on keeping fares and costs low – will begin taking steps to separate themselves from the competition by operating more on time and more efficiently. To the degree that they’re successful, expect them to brag about it publicly. Ted Reed, freelance journalist who’s written for the Miami Herald, Charlotte Observer and TheStreet.com  WHAT TO WATCH: The most important controllable industry issue in 2019 is that all three major carriers will be negotiating pilot contracts. I believe United will be the first to sign a contract (They are the only one currently negotiating) and it will become the model for the other two contracts.I believe pilots will seek to move quickly, in order to sign contracts before the economy slows. I do not think we will see a repeat of 2001, when contracts turned out to be overly generous given an economic slowdown, one of the factors that led to a series of bankruptcies. Secondly, Delta's deployment of the A220 will, to a small degree, bring an awareness that legroom in coach has value. THE UNCONVENTIONAL WISDOM: In 2019, American Airlines stock will outperform at least one peer, if not both. The drone attorney Jonathan Rupprecht THE BIG TREND: The drone industry in 2019 will be similar to 2018. There are no regulatory changes that will go into effect soon to change up the economics. The only way companies can differentiate themselves at this point is with obtaining certain types of regulatory approvals from the FAA (exemptions and waivers).  WHAT TO WATCH: More and more larger companies start obtaining more sophisticated waivers or exemptions from the FAA. For example, Google is currently trying to obtain an exemption to do package delivery under Part 135 for their drones.  THE UNCONVENTIONAL WISDOM: While everyone in the drone industry is focusing on trying to grow their business, I think the wiser thing to do would be to trim the fat in operations. A popular weed killer on the market is a plant hormone that stimulates the growth of the plant beyond what can be sustained by its root system, which results in plant death. We have seen this in the drone industry with companies that have grown beyond what can be sustained by their "root systems." (E.g. Airware).  