Saudi Arabia’s King Salman approved the government’s $295bn budget for next year on December 18, which he said was “the largest budget in the history of the kingdom of Saudi Arabia.” The aim, he added, was to support economic growth in line with the objectives of the Vision 2030 economic reform strategy. The reality of the Saudi economy these days, however, is that its reform efforts are being pursued in word more than in deed. In 2016 when the government unveiled Vision 2030 it was with the intention of remodeling its economy and moving it away from its historical reliance on oil revenues and state-funded activity. The aim was for the private sector to step in and be the engine of growth and create jobs for locals, helped along by high inward investment. The first stage of the plan was spelt out in greater detail in a National Transformation Plan which set lots of targets for 2020. That date is getting ever nearer, but the prospects for a revamped Saudi economy look as distant as ever. These days foreign capital is looking elsewhere, with international investors withdrawing money from the stock market. While there was a rise in inward investment in the first half of 2018 compared to the dire performance in 2017, it still remains very low. In large part this is a consequence of the country’s reputation being hammered by the catastrophic war in Yemen and the murder of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s henchmen. Other economic indicators are also troubling for Riyadh. Unemployment, for example, has been creeping up and is now at 12.9%, with no clear path to reducing it to the government’s previously stated target of 9% by 2020. Overall economic activity seems as reliant as ever on government spending, the vast majority of which comes from oil revenues. Oxford Economics points out that the purchasing managers index – an indicator of activity in the non-oil economy – for January to October posted its worse performance in almost eight years. All that helps to explain why the government is planning to boost spending next year. Expenditure of SR1.1 trillion ($295bn) has been penciled in for the coming year, some 7% higher than the projected total for this year. The government had already been ramping up its spending in the tail-end of this year. According to Al Rajhi Capital, a Saudi investment bank, 31% of the government’s expenditure in 2018 has come in the final quarter. “Deciphering the Saudi budget is never an easy task but, reading between the lines, it seems to point to a third consecutive year of fiscal loosening,” said Jason Tuvey, senior emerging markets economist at Capital Economics, in a research note issued on December 18. “The non-oil budget balance – perhaps the best gauge of the underlying fiscal stance – looks set to widen by around 1.5% of non-oil GDP.” The government is also extending for another year the SR1,000-a-month “cost of living” allowance for public sector employees, alongside smaller monthly payments for pensioners and students. Al Rajhi Capital estimates this programme will cost the government SR22bn next year. It will be a price worth paying for the government if it helps to avoid public protests about higher taxes and the lack of job opportunities. Deficit doubts Government revenues are forecast to be SR975bn next year, 9% higher than the figure for this year, but still leaving a deficit of SR131bn (4.2% of GDP). That is a touch lower than the shortfall of SR136bn (4.6% of GDP) for this year, according to Ministry of Finance figures. Budget deficits have been falling in recent years. In 2017 the deficit was SR238bn or 9.3% of GDP. The government was helped in its efforts to keep its deficit under control this year by a 39% rise in oil revenues and a 12% rise in non-oil revenues to SR287bn. Next year’s non-oil revenues are predicted to rise further to SR313bn, but that is still far short of the target the government has set itself of SR530bn in non-oil revenues by 2020. Riyadh has been broadening its income base away from oil, with measures such as a value-added tax (VAT) on some goods and levies on expat workers and their employers. It also collected SR50bn in settlements from people accused of corruption this year. But there is a limit to how quickly it can introduce taxes and fees without harming the prospects for economic growth. Some doubt whether the government will be able to continue with the trend of falling budget deficits, given its optimistic assumptions about oil revenues. The authorities have forecast oil revenues of SR662bn for next year (up from SR608bn in 2018), which suggests an average oil price of around $80 a barrel, according to economists. However, oil prices are currently below $60 a barrel and few expect a sustained rise over the coming year. Oxford Economics thinks Saudi Arabia’s oil revenues will in fact fall next year to SR580bn. If oil prices drop to $55 a barrel by the end of 2019, which is Capital Economics’ prediction, the deficit could end up closer to 10% of GDP, said Tuvey. “For what it’s worth, the government would need oil prices to rise to almost $100 a barrel in order to balance next year’s budget,” he said. What all this amount to is an economy which remains as reliant as ever on government spending and with few signs that the private sector will be able to step in and take the pressure off the Ministry of Finance any time soon. Finance minister Mohammed Al-Jadaan said “the 2019 budget illustrates the strength and resilience of the Saudi economy.” Another way of looking at it would be to say that the budget illustrates how the Saudi government still has to lean heavily on its oil revenues to sustain activity in the wider economy, in the face of a reform program which is showing few signs of success.