Latin America's oil and gas industry will have a 'stable' 2019, driven by a 1% rise in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and neutral free cash, as regional efforts to deleverage continue, according to the latest research. In a note to its clients, Moody's Investors Service said that despite unimpressive regional GDP growth, the rating agency expects softer oil and gas prices will keep EBITDA relatively stable in 2019. Nymia Almeida, Senior Vice President at Moody's, noted: "The rise in production for Brazil and Argentina more than offsets the declines in Mexico and Venezuela. Furthermore, lower or stable capital spending will help protect cash and reduce negative free cash flow."    The rating agency adds that political agendas will interfere in business decisions in the region's oil and gas industry. In Mexico, the new government has halted oil auctions and state-owned Pemex's farmouts for three years. In addition, continued government interference in Venezuela will continue to have negative effects on production and cash flow generation. Argentina's high inflation will weigh on profitability and lower economic activity, and higher funding costs are likely to slow energy investment. Conversely, Brazil's new government will less likely intervene in the country's oil and gas industry, however, fuel pricing strategy still implies risk. In Colombia, solid economic growth at above 3% will support fuel demand and increasing efficiency will support production and reserve life. As concerns over the rapidly deteriorating oil production levels in Venezuela continue to mount, research and analytics firms GlobalData says Mexico's crude production is destined to plummet in the long run as well, if the new government's strategy focuses only on Pemex. Following the news that Mexico's current government under President Lopez Obrador will focus only on Pemex to support crude oil production, GlobalData says in order to reach the 2.48 million barrels per day (bpd) crude oil production target by 2024, proposed by the government, the country's industry will need to spend $58 billion on a combination of awarded, discovered and existing producing fields. Otherwise, by 2024, decline in crude production from producing fields will have reached 1.22 million bpd. David Bautista, Oil and Gas Analyst at GlobalData, says the situation ought to worrying as there was lack of clarity. "Though the new government has indicated that Pemex's budget will increase amidst escalating costs, it is not clear by how much or whether the company will seek additional funding through potential partnerships." Originally, Obrador announced he would review all exploration and production contracts and delay bidding rounds until further notice, in a market that was opened up to foreign bidders under his predecessor. Earlier in December, Obrador suspended oil auctions for three years and said contracts awarded under the 2013 energy reforms, which ended the eight decades Pemex’s monopoly, were "safe" provided they were "productive." "We are not going to cancel contracts. What we want is for those who received them to demonstrate that they will invest and produce. We’re going to have a three-year truce so that there is investment. We don't want investment titles that are only used for speculation. We want them to produce and we need them to as [Mexican] production is falling," the President said. 