AMLO's pragmatic populism Our analysis of Mexico’s new president AMLO (both before and after his landmark election) has painted him as a kind of “pragmatic populist” -- a leader intent on maintaining the anti-establishment, “man of the people” credentials on which his mandate is based, but sufficiently pragmatic to operate within the institutional, economic and (in the case of security) physical constraints before him. When these two dynamics conflict -- for example, if/when AMLO is forced to deliver on the expensive promises behind his large and diverse political coalition -- we expect AMLO will continue to be a populist in rhetoric and symbology but ultimately a pragmatist in policy. Mexico’s recent budget fits this bill. As we wrote to a client beforehand, it reflects AMLO’s “self-imposed budget constraint” to “only fund his [myriad] promises as tax or other government revenue becomes available” and signals the president’s attention to investor sentiment by sticking to the 1% primary surplus target, bumped up after the recent airport referendum fiasco. Per the graph above, the government’s (expensive) ambitions for PEMEX amid a bear oil market and bigger welfare commitment keeps Macro-Economic Policy Risk slightly elevated, but overall Policy Risk -- which is just past a recent peak and declining into the new year -- indicates Q1 2019 will rattle fewer investor nerves than the recent past. Thailand's democratic transition, redux Thailand’s 2019 general election season officially kicked off last week with the incumbent military regime’s lifting of the ban on political activity and the Election Commission’s simultaneous announcement that a general election will take place on 24 February 2019. Though still early in the election season, our Regime Instability, Government Instability and Mass Support Risk indicators jointly point toward a nominal structural transition to democracy, albeit one in which pro-regime politicians retain significant legislative power and with a high likelihood of incumbent Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha remaining at the helm. The main wildcard in this equation is Thailand’s new electoral system, which is expected to favor medium-sized parties and therefore grant them disproportionate influence over the selection of the new prime minister in a scenario where the pro-regime Phalang Pracharat Party or conversely, aligned anti-regime parties, fall slightly short of obtaining a combined majority of legislative seats across both chambers of Thailand’s parliament. We expect further clarity to emerge surrounding party-PM candidate alignment when the campaign period formally opens on 2 January 2019. 2019 year ahead in Political Risk -- a sneak preview Come the new year we’ll be sharing our key predictions for 2019, but this graph -- which tracks the average (0-100) GeoQuant Political Risk score across the 30 largest markets in our database -- is a quick look at what’s to come. Overall a relatively optimistic picture: 2019 is projected to see less Political Risk on average than 2018, especially in the first half. More to come!