While I was cooking dinner for Christmas Eve (my Yorkshire pudding came out this year; previously I was famous for what the family dubbed Yorkshire Pancakes), I kept one eye on the oil price reports. With both equity and commodity markets crashing, oil prices followed suit. Christmas cheer for consumers, but lumps of coal (and not the good kind) for producers, who didn’t deserve it. Although to quote Clint Eastwood, “Deserve’s got nothing to do with it.” (Different context, admittedly.) Needless to say, this is scary stuff for the industry, many of whom are seeing barrels of red ink (think oil sands in Canada very definitely). But it’s vital to realize this is a commodity price fluctuation more than a change in the oil market fundamentals. True, as 2018 evolved, expectations of $100 a barrel next year receded, especially as it became clear that economic prospects were dimming and U.S. shale production was soaring. Think Christmas movies. No, not the catastrophic explosions in Die Hard, but the iconic traders’ movie Trading Places, where commodity traders are depicted as reacting immediately to news and rumor, psychology reversing on a dime. Traders react to things that seem unimportant to longer term market fundamentals because they know that other traders are reacting to them: you don’t shrug your shoulders and stand aside while prices are moving sharply because you think the move is irrational. The trigger for the latest move was the general market collapse in response to the government shutdown and the President’s attack on the Federal Reserve. Given that country after country has seen stock markets react negatively to political interference in central banks, the sharp drop in equities is hardly unexpected and could influence the nation’s economy in coming months, but only at the margin. Consumer sentiment and industry investment are far more important, although obviously political chaos hurts both. As famous economist Meryl Streep would say, “It’s complicated.” Longer term, the market next year should stabilize. Expectations (from the IEA in this case) are for a slight decrease in the demand for oil from OPEC, on the order of 0.2 mb/d. True, a recession would take as much as 0.5 mb/d of demand off the market, but low oil prices could also cut supply from places like Texas and Alberta by almost that much. More important, production in Iran and Venezuela could be down as much as 1 mb/d, and even if compliance with the recently agreed cuts is poor, probably more than 0.5 mb/d will be taken off the market. But the rebalancing of the market will not be apparent until later in the year, very reminiscent of 2018 when the combination of high OPEC compliance (not completely factored into the price) and later expectations of collapsing Iranian sales (not yet realized) strengthened prices significantly. The same is quite probable (nothing is ever certain in the oil market) this coming year, although the longer prices are lower, the more supply will be depressed later in the year. (Although increasing Permian takeaway capacity could offset that.) I do not play the futures market (story for another day), but it does seem as if the current market is oversold, something that happens periodically. Timing the turnaround is always the tricky part. J. P. Morgan supposedly said he got rich by selling too soon, meaning not trying to time the peak. Similarly, I would say that although we might not be at the short-term bottom, it seems highly unlikely that there won’t be a significant rebound in prices in coming days. 