The oil majors’ downstream businesses have delivered value to shareholders over recent years. This is due to portfolio high grading and the surge in oil demand due to low crude oil prices. The majors are now making selective refinery investments to upgrading their existing portfolio, but are not building new refineries in growing markets, such as Asia and Latin America. Why? You’d think it would make sense, especially as the big players know how to build and operate a successful refinery. Actually, it’s quite complicated. Wood Mackenzie analyses the earnings of over 550 operational refineries with a capacity of more than 50,000 barrels per day. Earnings are typically measured as absolutes (US$million) or on a per unit basis (US$/bbl of crude processed). A review of the 2017 results highlights the following challenges: Size – refinery capacity is not necessarily a good indicator of overall earnings. Being bigger is better in terms of absolute earnings, but as refineries get bigger, the law of diminishing returns takes hold. So why are refineries getting bigger? This is technology driven, and is all about making the most efficient capital investment and operating decision. Refinery investment costs do not have a ”straight line” relationship with refinery size and the unit costs - that is, investment per barrel per day of capacity - fall as the refinery size gets bigger. There is, however, a limit as to how large key equipment items can be. Operationally, a larger crude unit requires the same number of operators as a small one, so again, there are efficiency savings with larger units. New refinery investment decisions therefore the “bigger is better” mentality, as this spreads the investment and operating costs over a larger volume of crude feedstock. Complexity – this is a measure of the sophistication of the refinery. It is an indication of the refinery’s capability to convert crude into higher-value products, such as high quality transportation fuels. There is a strong relationship between complexity and refining margins. However, it is far from perfect, as complexity measures the investment cost of the process units, not the value they deliver. The challenge is that for some units, their cost to build is sometimes disproportionate to their value. Another challenge is that petrochemicals, a key driver of future value, are poorly captured in these cost-based metrics. Location – this is a critical driver of refinery earnings and it is relevant to both crude supply and product sales. This all relates to local supply/demand balances and the associated logistics costs of delivery. Ideally, in margin terms, refineries are located inland next to large crude supplies in regions where the refineries do not supply enough to satisfy local demand. This enables the refinery to secure low-cost crude, as it does not need to pay the freight cost for the crude to be delivered to the coast and so be available to international markets. Similarly for products, the ex-refinery gate price reflects the international price, to which is added the cost for delivering products from the coast to the local market. This location benefit is the key reason why the refineries with the highest global unit earnings are located in Western Canada and the US Midwest. For Europe, the pipeline delivery of Russian crude and deficit local markets are the key reason why refineries in east Germany and Central Europe typically achieve the highest unit earnings. So what? There is a direct conflict between scale and location, as inland markets limit the size of any new investment. The location advantage can be quickly turned into a major cost if refined product supply exceeds local demand. In such a situation, the refinery now needs to pay the logistics costs to move the surplus to the coast for export to international markets, so its local pricing premium is switched to an additional cost it must now bear. There are conflicts and contradictions in the commercial performance of the refining network even though refining operates between the two global commodity markets of crude oil and refined products. Quite simply, it makes more sense for the majors to focus on existing assets rather than add to their portfolios in newer markets. Those eith assets primarily in OECD markets will focus on upgrading their existing portfolio, primarily through increasing complexity, while ensuring they manage local balances New refineries need to be large (for economies of scale), complex (to add the most value to the crude) and coastal (so they can trade any surpluses). These are primarily developed by national oil companies in the Middle East and Asia Pacific, as those are the regions of strong refined product demand growth.