Lower oil prices could boost Modi’s chances to be re-elected in 2019, provided that his administration is doing things right this time around: ie, letting the benefits of lower prices be passed on to the masses rather than the government coffers. India has a big addiction to oil. Together with China it is among the world’s largest oil consuming countries. That’s why lower prices have a positive impact on the Indian economy. On India’s financial markets and government coffers that is, not on the masses. There’s a clear and straightforward explanation for that. Oil is heavily taxed, with taxes making up to 50% of the retail price. At least that’s been the experience in recent years. “As the economy has benefited from high taxation on petroleum and diesel, India has experienced a retail energy price significantly higher than that of its South Asian neighbors – with taxes accounting for half of the total retail cost of fuels in India,” writes oil analyst Felicity Bradstock in Oilprice.com. When the cost of oil falls, the government raises tax rates to broaden its revenues. This means that lower oil costs don’t benefit consumers. “As the price of oil fell, the Indian government increased the excise duty on gasoline nine times over the course of three years,” explains Bradstock. “The failure of the government to pass these savings on to the consumer resulted in alienation of the poorer classes of Indian society.” That could be one of the factors behind the disconnect between Modi’s strong economy and financial markets, on the one hand, and the average citizen. In 2018, India’s economy grew by 7.4% and, according to a recently published BNP Paribas Global Outlook, it’s expected to grow by 7.6% in 2019. Meanwhile, Indians have been headed the other way. They took a few steps down on the life ladder, and some cannot even afford food basics. But that’s something already discussed in a previous piece here. Now, oil prices are falling again, and Modi’s administration has another opportunity to let benefits flow to the masses rather than to government coffers. And also to raise the chances for Modi to be re-elected in 2019. “Any time the economy is doing well the incumbent does better,” says Rodrigo Zeidan, Associate Professor of Practice of Business and Finance at New York University Shanghai. The economy is growing fast, and cost pressures could derail growth. Since diesel and gasoline prices have been liberalized (price controls have been lifted), oil prices are passed through consumers. Lower prices do make the lives of ordinary people better, which plays into the sentiment towards Modi.” Provided that they don’t levy new oil taxes to pay for the ever-growing government deficits. 