Oil, specifically domestic oil production, is the biggest story of 2018 in the trade world. China and the U.S.-initiated trade war might seem, at the moment, to be a bigger story but its long-term impact will be less significant. And then, always that whisper in my ear, Brexit. To be sure, Brexit is important on all sorts of levels. First, even if it's only a partial unraveling, it is an unraveling. The European Union is losing one of the cornerstone members, or, at this writing, that's the plan. The attempted withdrawal nearly toppled the United Kingdom's leader, Prime Minister Theresa May, last week. It is making us think anew about free trade agreements and how permanent we want them to be, how easy or difficult it should be able to withdraw from them. Or, it should be making us think about it. Particularly after President Trump threatened to formally withdraw from the North America Free Trade Agreement (which he did awkwardly between the death and burial of its primary architect, the former President George Bush). A move intended to force a reluctant Congress to pass his United States Mexico Canada Agreement, it was ham-handed but put the issue in the spotlight, if only briefly. Does a president have the right to withdraw from a treaty passed by the Congress? In addition, Brexit is raising a logistical conundrum as both sides wrestle with the issue of Ireland and Northern Ireland, which share a border and where a hard-fought peace in the war between the Catholic Irish and the Protestant Northern Irish has been in place for a quarter century. With the United Kingdom out of the European Union, would the two be able to trade freely? What would happen to the border? It matters not just across the pond but also here, since four of the United States' top 10 trade partners and seven of the top 15 are European nations. AS important as Brexit is, it does seem to pale in comparison to the U.S.-China trade war. I have written recently and somewhat frequently about the impact of the trade war on U.S. exports, as China has retaliated against tariffs President Trump imposed on Chinese imports. First, we are talking about the world's two largest economies. Second, we are talking about the country that provides the United States with 22% of our imports. It's our largest trade partner. We, too, are China's. It been a factor in the wild gyrations of the U.S. stock market over the last handful of months, albeit not the only one. The Dow is on track to suffer it worst December performance since the Great Depression, barring a strong upward gyration. China's retaliation has showed up in U.S. exports of soybeans, motor vehicles and oil. In 2017, China accounted for 57% of U.S. soybean exports. In October, we exported more soybeans to Iran than China. Trump is offering billions in aid to farmers hurt by the damage. Exports of motor vehicles to China accounted for 20% of the U.S. total in 2017. In October that percentage was down to 8. In June, the United States exported a record $1 billion in oil to China, our second-largest market after Canada. In August, September and October, the total was zero. China has stopped buying U.S. oil. Meanwhile, as overall U.S. exports have slipped into the negative, down 1.43 % through October, U.S. imports from China have increased 7.89%. While Trump has expanded his goals, if poorly articulated the specifics, to include stopping China from stealing U.S. intellectual property and from forcing U.S. multinationals to turn over technology secrets to do business there, and to force China to open its markets to U.S. exports, this is certainly no way to cut a U.S. trade deficit. Could there have been a different path? To start, signing the Trans-Pacific Partnership when he entered office in 2017 rather than withdrawing from the 12-nation agreement after seven years of negotiation would have been a good idea. TPP was all about putting a metaphorical fence around China. The United States would have had allies in Japan, Vietnam and other nations that also have issues with China's expansive economic, political and military efforts. He could have reached out to European nations, which also have issues with Chinese trade practices, but has alienated many of them, including, for example, Germany by talking about auto tariffs. Instead, we are trying to fight the fight with tariffs, which, while affecting China and its already hobbled economy, is proving challenging. The reason domestic oil production will, through the long lens of history, be the larger trade story of 2018 is because of its potential to turn the United States into a net energy exporter, a temporary bridge while alternative energy sources continue to gain ground. That will have two profound geopolitical impacts. U.S. oil exports, which were virtually nonexistent from the early 1970s, after the Arab Oil Embargo, to the tail end of the Obama Administration, have gone from the nation's 11th most valuable U.S. export last year to fifth through the first 10 months of 2017 to third through October. So far this year oil exports are more than double the 2017 total. While oil imports still dwarf exports, the margin of difference is shrinking rapidly. An opportunity created by hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, U.S. oil production is limiting the power of the mostly Middle Eastern nations to control oil prices, which underpins so much of the U.S. and other nations' economies. Simply put, a energy-independent United States thinks differently about its role in the affairs of Iran, Iraq, Syria, Saudi Arabia and the rest of the Middle East. Simply put, al Qaeda, ISIS, even the Africa's Boko Haram, and the groups that will follow them will think differently about the United States as well. If the United States is able to continue to pump oil effectively from deep under the Earth's surface and without serious environmental incident, it could also force the Middle East to move more aggressively toward China, India and other developing countries to sell oil. While that is fraught with its own risks, military, political and environmental, it could also accelerate in the short- to medium-term those nations' economic ascension, providing a greater market for U.S. exports, for a continued decline in poverty and continued increase in access to health care, electricity, proper housing and a middle-class lifestyle.