  As we ready ourselves to close 2018 and move into 2019, the oil talk continues. U.S. prices have fell below $50 per barrel for the first time in 14 months One main reason why our crude prices (WTI) are expected to be $11 cheaper in 2019 than they were in 2018 is the ongoing surge in U.S. production. The National Energy Modeling System is taking note: the U.S. Energy Information Administration's December forecast for 2019 pricing was 16% lower than its November projection.    Despite sunken prices (November was the largest monthly decline since 2008), the U.S. has never produced as much oil as it does today. And the Department of the Interior forecasts another 20% rise by 2020 to 14 million b/d. The shale boom really is a historic achievement: our national crude output was long thought to have peaked back in 1970 at just over 9.6 million b/d. Total U.S. oil production is rising at its fastest pace in almost 100 years, and our shale machine is "OPEC's Worst Nightmare." Our largest oil field, the Permian basin in West Texas, continues to pump out more and more oil, despite low local prices and growing pipeline constraints that were expected to slow output months ago. Production there will surpass 3.8 million b/d this January, some 35% more than in January 2018. Americans should know, of course, that our producers cannot restrict supplies like OPEC members and Russian national champions can. We thrive in a free market where producers that would collude to cut output to up prices would be sued by the U.S. government. As for the global crude benchmark, Brent, the OPEC+ production cuts, geopolitical uncertainties, and mounting global demand will help hold the premium over WTI. This will continually help U.S. crude exporters, which reached a record 3.2 million b/d for the final week of November. For 2019, the U.S. Energy Information Administration sees another slight global surplus for the oil market. This would suggest a limit to the upward movement in prices. Slowing demand and rising supply have been causing inventories to grow. "Oil drops over 5% on economic slowdown fears, supply glut." Oil storage is approaching three billion barrels and is now past its five-year average Just last week though, the Paris-based International Energy Agency kept its monthly projection for 2019 incremental oil demand growth, at 1.4 million b/d. As they see it, lower oil prices can offset economic stagnation to keep new demand high. Finally, as we head into Christmas and another New Year's celebration, I would suggest Americans take a step back and realize how lucky we really are. When it comes to oil, we should be thankful that current prices are actually not high when taking a historical perspective. To illustrate, during the past 45 years or so, global oil demand has more than doubled to over 100 million b/d, yet real oil prices today are lower than they were back in the mid-1970s. Given that oil is the world's most vital fuel with no significant substitute, its historically low cost is pretty remarkable. 