Have the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and Russia done enough to stabilize oil markets with their latest production cut deal? Hardly. The market’s muted response to the 1.2 million barrels a day cut agreement, struck on December 7, tells you all you need to know. Global benchmark Brent crude is barely holding above $60 a barrel while U.S. crude sits around $51. Oil traders know that the cuts fall short of what is needed to adequately balance the market in 2019, hence there is no expectation for an immediate and sustained recovery in prices. As I said before the OPEC meeting, the cartel was really in a no-win situation. Markets had already baked in an OPEC supply cut of 1 million to 1.3 million barrels a day, so anything less would have been considered a failure. The “buy the rumor and sell the news” trading strategy has very much been in effect in recent days.    However, as traders analyze the news and the mechanics of the OPEC deal more closely, they are likely to find more reasons to sell than buy. Ultimately, I believe the cartel will need to take further action next spring, before the deal expires on June 30, to stabilize oil markets and prevent prices from plunging further. Whether or not it can make this happen given internal tensions and frustrations in Moscow, is another story. For now, let’s examine what the OPEC deal accomplishes. At best, it is likely to put a shaky floor under current oil prices. How firm this floor is will depend on the deal’s implementation, timing and enforcement. Here, there are serious reasons for concern. Russia, the most critical non-OPEC partner, has agreed to cut about 230,000 barrels a day but says this will take time to achieve due to seasonal factors related to harsh winter conditions at oil fields in Western Siberia. Russia was slow to hit its 300,000 barrels per day commitment in 2017, when it first partnered with OPEC in supply cuts, requiring several months to reach 100% compliance. With the new deal only running six months, Russia looks less likely to fulfill its commitment this time -- particularly since Russian oil companies aren’t thrilled about OPEC action stunting their growth plans. Saudi Arabia will once again shoulder the biggest cuts among OPEC members and draw the most attention in markets. However, the oil-rich kingdom’s actions could confound markets. Saudi Arabia plans to cut its production to 10.7 million barrels a day this month, down from a record 11.1 million barrels a day in November and cut further to 10.2 million barrels a day in January to emphasize its commitment to the new OPEC deal. However, the kingdom is still committed to making available its full capacity of 12 million barrels a day in short order in early 2018, if it must compensate for more significant losses of Iranian exports next year due to U.S. sanctions. Markets may have a hard time making sense of this mixed messaging. Nor will traders forget that President Donald Trump may have Saudi Arabia in his pocket when it comes to oil policy. Riyadh’s firm support for sanctions on its arch-rival Iran, as well as Trump’s support for the Saudi leadership in the aftermath of the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, mean that the president has outsized influence over Saudi oil policy. The OPEC kingpin will still act in its interests, but it’s not likely to take actions without considering Trump’s perspective -- and the president has made it clear that he does not want spiking oil prices. Meanwhile, just as the OPEC cuts are expected to start biting, they will run into lower demand in the spring when most global refineries perform seasonal maintenance. The effects of this could be amplified by any slowdowns resulting from the U.S.-China trade war. Surging American oil production won’t stop anytime soon either. OPEC’s supply cut decision is an early Christmas gift to shale producers who are fine-tuning their 2019 capital budgets. Analysts expect the sector’s rampant growth to continue next year and beyond, with U.S. production seen surpassing 12 million barrels a day by mid-2019. The U.S. oil sector is not immune to low prices, but it is far more efficient today than it was just a few years ago when it survived a price war with OPEC. It’s true that fewer American companies have hedged production going forward into 2019, with many current price hedges scheduled to expire this spring. But producers are expected to maintain growth plans, even while budgeting conservatively at $50 to $60 a barrel for U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude. Many are chomping at the bit to capitalize on the expected completion of pipeline and infrastructure build outs next year that have constrained output. Whatever damage might occur to capital budgets from oil price volatility won’t be felt for sometime in production figures. Expect U.S. supply growth to remain a thorn in OPEC’s side in 2019. So how badly did OPEC miss the mark with its cuts? I believe the cartel need to cut 2 million barrels a day to balance supply and demand in 2019. There are too many fundamental, political and economic factors pointing toward continued inventory builds on both the supply and demand sides. Even assuming 100% compliance with cuts, the market is still looking at an overhang of around 700,000 barrels a day. The fact that recent massive unplanned supply outages in Libya and Canada have not significantly boosted prices speaks volumes about market sentiment. The International Energy Agency (IEA) on Friday lowered its production forecast for non-OPEC producers by 600,000 barrels a day for the first half of 2019, mainly reflecting the planned outages in Canada and expected declines in the North Sea. This should help OPEC’s effort to cut the supply surplus, but even with this revision, the Paris-based IEA says only “time will tell how effective the new production agreement” is – not exactly a ringing endorsement for a balanced market. It may be winter, but the oil bears are not hibernating. And OPEC’s supply cut agreement is rightfully being viewed as little more than the best of many worst-case scenarios by traders. The cartel will likely find itself in a more difficult position in April when it meets to review the deal. The question is will oil prices have fallen further by that time, and, given its internal divisions, will OPEC have the ability to take further action? 