I don't usually check coffee futures prices but after my coffee shop in Boulder raised the price of a cup by 25 cents, I found myself looking up the charts. The Trident Booksellers and Cafe on West Pearl Street is my favorite place to sit and write the Forbes blog. I like the old school Colorado ambiance and the fact that Allen Ginsberg used to write poetry sitting in the back of the place. They've got a decent drawing of Jack Kerouac on the wall and they sell used paperback copies of Richard Brautigan books, not that easy to find. So, basically, since I like the vibe and feel comfortable there, I don't care about paying an extra quarter for a cup of coffee -- The Trident took the price from $2 to $2.25 per cup. The price of bagels is unaffected, at least so far. If they say they need it, I'm happy to pay a little more, it's not a big deal. I'm guessing it has more to do with paying other expenses that might be increasing. But the price increase did lead me to the coffee futures price charts where I don't usually spend too much time and what I found surprised me.    Here's the daily chart: That's a downtrend. It was trading at 1.25 in October and now goes for 1.025. This contract is the world benchmark for Arabica coffee, according to Intercontinental Exchange. ICE says "the contract prices physical delivery of exchange-grade green beans, from one of 20 countries of origin in a licensed warehouse to one of several ports in the U. S. and Europe, with stated premiums/discounts for ports and growths." Here's the weekly chart for the same coffee benchmark: Coffee peaked in late 2016 at 1.75. You can see how steadily it has dropped since then with a low of .95 in September of this year before a sudden rally and another bout of selling. The price remains below the downtrend line and below the Ichimoku cloud. It's quite a wide range of price if you're used to stock market moves, but physical commodities tend to trade with greater volatility -- and, obviously, coffee is not an exception. Here's the monthly price chart: Some spectacular moves can be made out on this chart such as from the 2002 low of .35 to the 2011 high of above 3.0. Quite a bit of price has been lopped off from that all time peak price now that coffee trades for 1.02. So, for years now, the benchmark price of coffee has been declining. The same thing is true of crude oil but I notice that the price of a gallon at the local pump has dropped from $2.90 to $2.45 as the petroleum benchmark tanked. I wonder what happens when the coffee futures prices start trending upward again? I do not hold positions in these investments. No recommendations are made one way or the other. If you're an investor, you'd want to look much deeper into each of these situations. You can lose money trading or investing in stocks and other instruments. Always do your own independent research, due diligence and seek professional advice from a licensed investment advisor. 