As Orthodox Churches around the world celebrate Christmas, two countries which are home to millions of believers are bitterly divided. Religion itself is the cause. On the eve of the holy day--which the Orthodox Church celebrates on January 7th in the contemporary calendar--the spiritual leader of Orthodox Christians, Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, presented the Ukrainian Patriarch Epifaniy with the document granting the Ukrainian Church independence from Moscow, confirming a decision taken in October.    The creation of the independent Ukrainian Church seems like a spiritual matter. It also has very grave political implications. The move threatens to inflame still further tension between Russia and Ukraine: two countries whose post-Communist eras have involved religious revival--and armed conflict. Although Russia and Ukraine have a shared history going back hundreds of years, their relationship over the last quarter century has often been troubled. Until 1991, both countries were part of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. When the USSR fell apart, Ukraine became independent from Moscow. Part of its history since has focused on defining its new relationship with Russia. It has not always been easy: bitter disputes over gas prices took on an international dimension when the row disrupted onward supplies to western Europe. The real crisis came in 2014 when Russia annexed Crimea, provoking bitter condemnation--and extensive sanctions--from western countries. The confrontation has continued, with conflict spreading subsequently to other regions. Announcing further sanctions in November, the State Department made reference to "Russia’s illegal purported annexation and occupation of Crimea and use of force to control parts of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Eastern Ukraine". The conflict has killed thousands. It has been the biggest challenge to the leadership of the Ukrainian president, Petro Poroshenko, during his time in office. A little over a month ago, he accused his Russian counterpart, Russian resident, Vladimir Putin, of wanting to take over the whole of Ukraine. Russia has never publicly declared any such intention. It has, however, persistently opposed any Ukrainian plans to build closer ties with western institutions including the European Union, and especially NATO. The political significance of the granting of independence to the Ukrainian Church was underlined by the fact that President Poroshenko travelled to Istanbul for the ceremony at the weekend, and attended Monday's Orthodox Christmas service in Kiev. Although relatively few Russians are churchgoers--save on major occasions such as Christmas and Easter--the Orthodox faith is a hugely significant part of Russia's post-Soviet identity. Surveys regularly suggest that a majority of Russians identify themselves as Orthodox Christians. In that sense, the Ukrainian Church's independence is a challenge to Russia's view of itself as a guardian of Orthodox Christian values. Last month, President Putin criticized Secretary of State Pompeo for discussing the matter with Kiev; he even warned that church property disputes could turn "bloody". The Russian news agency, TASS, has given prominence to Christmas messages from both President Putin--who himself attended a Christmas service in St Petersburg--and Patriarch Kirill. TASS' view of the new church itself was made clear over the weekend, in a story which referred to "the new Ukrainian structure, the so-called Orthodox Church of Ukraine".  The issue of the Ukrainian Church's new status adds new tension to the confrontation between Russia and Ukraine, and is likely to be an important factor to watch in the coming year.   