The Port of Corpus Christi (PortCC) received outstanding news at the end of last week, as the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers awarded an initial contract for the deepening and widening of its ship channel to llinois-based Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Company LLC. The $92 million contract will fund the dredging of the channel from the entrance to the Intra-Coastal Waterway to Harbor Island, where PortCC plans to install a crude loading facility capable of fully loading the largest classes of oil tankers for export. This contract represents a first step by the federal government towards meeting its commitment to fully expand the PortCC channel, a project whose full price tag is currently estimated at $360 million. As I've written previously, PortCC has, for the first time in its history, committed to taking on debt to fund $130 million of the project, leaving it up to the feds to come through with the remaining $230 million, a process that has already dragged on for several years. If all goes according to current plans, this initial phase of the project will be completed during 2020. Currently, Suez Max tankers and so-called Very Large Crude Carriers (VLCCs) are able to land at the Port, but can only be partly loaded due to the current insufficient channel depth. These ships must then move out into deeper waters in the Gulf of Mexico and have their remaining loads shuttled out to them via barges. The completion of the Harbor Island project will eliminate that second step and enable PortCC, already by far the largest crude-exporting port in the nation, to move larger volumes of crude much more efficiently.    This is a key project not just for PortCC, but for the domestic oil and gas industry, whose export volumes have risen dramatically since the repeal of the 1970s-era ban on crude oil exports in December, 2015. Per the U.S. Energy Information Administration, U.S. crude export volumes have risen from 490,000 barrels of oil per day in January, 2016 to 2.3 million bopd in October, 2018. With the boom in U.S. crude production largely focused in the Permian Basin of West Texas and Southeast New Mexico, the lion's share of that expansion has been facilitated through PortCC and, to a lesser extent, other ports along the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast. The need to export U.S. crude is driven by the fact that most refining capacity along the Gulf Coast is designed to process heavy grades of crude coming into the U.S. from overseas, rather than the light, sweet crude coming out of shale basins like the Permian, the Eagle Ford in South Texas and the Bakken in North Dakota. Although the industry has begun to scale back its 2019 drilling plans in response to the recent decline in crude prices, the expectation is that overall U.S. production from these shale basins will continue to rise significantly in the coming decade. Absent corresponding expansion in domestic refining capacity, those incremental volumes will need to be shipped overseas. So, while the awarding of this contract to Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. is great news for PortCC, it also represents a key event for the entire domestic oil and gas industry. 