As 2018 ends, it is an excellent time to reflect on the past 12 months for the oil and gas sector and assess its prospects in 2019. “If there is one constant in energy markets, it is change, as prices shift and companies adapt,” Duane Dickson, US Oil, Gas & Chemicals leader, Deloitte says. “Although no one can truly claim to know what will happen in the next 12 months, it is useful to try to understand how the business environment might evolve.” In oil markets, the depths of the post-2014 downturn seem to be behind us. Oil prices have recovered from the $40 2016 annual average WTI (West Texas Intermediate) price low. It reached $50 in 2017, and through September 2018 it averaged just shy of $67, though many producers in Canada and the Permian saw lower prices due to widening differentials. Building on the recovery According to Dickson this recovery has been a result of various factors, including sustained success of the production restraint agreement between OPEC (the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries) and non-OPEC countries in force since the beginning of 2017, less oil coming to market from challenged producers, and continued strong global oil demand growth estimated by the Energy Information Administration at about 1.6 million b/d in 2018. According to a recent survey from Deloitte confidence is indeed still high with potential for increased economic growth, commodity prices, and investment. “Market indicators seem to support this view, with the US and global economy showing strong growth, energy demand increasing at above-average levels, and, in the oil sector particularly, risks to supply persisting from a few key exporting countries. So, are the good times returning?” Dickson explains. Facing the challenges There are however plenty of problems ahead with the threat of rising interest rates and the ongoing trade wars with increasing tariffs pushing up the price of critical materials. “Irrespective of near-term uncertainty, the 2019 energy conversation is expected to increasingly include long-term issues,” Dickson continues. “Sustainability is no longer a niche issue for energy companies. It is moving to the center of strategy and investment decisions. Major oil companies are investing in renewable energy, while natural gas producers, shippers, and consumers are increasing their focus on mitigating methane emissions. “Moreover, technology is not standing still—the scope and pace of growth for low-carbon energy, autonomous and electric vehicles, energy efficiency, and distributed energy is becoming not just a topic for futurologists, but a focus of decision-making throughout the energy and chemicals value chains.” Profits and infrastructure Dickson points to several trends that will shape 2019. Enduring that returns and profitability demonstrate value to investors is top of his list. “The challenge now will likely be to translate the 2018 price recovery into sustainable profitability and returns,” Dickson says. “The downturn saw tremendous gains in cost containment, capital high-grading, and operating efficiency. Will this discipline be maintained?” Building and expanding pipelines, processing facilities, import and export terminals, storage facilities, and LNG plants is a vital but often underappreciated part of the value chain. “Major infrastructure projects are moving forward, but the delay can be costly,” Dickson explained. “No one can afford to ignore how this plays out, impacting price spreads and physical capacity to move products.” The sustainability imperative Sustainability is not a new theme for oil and gas companies, many have trodden this path before with varying levels of success — this time however it is different with increasing consumer awareness of environmental and climate impacts and societal expectations driving more and more companies to embrace sustainability. “It is not just about plans and communications,” Dickson says. “Major oil, gas, and chemicals companies are making increasingly sizable investments in companies and technologies that bring renewable, low-carbon energy to consumers and to reduce their own environmental and carbon footprints. Digital technologies No conversation about the prospects for 2019 can be complete without assessing the impact of digital technology on the oil and gas landscape. More and more companies are looking hard at the deployment of artificial intelligence, analytics, robotics, and blockchain to increase efficiency, productivity, reliability, and predictability of operations. Dickson acknowledges that impact of digital technologies but sounds a word of warning “Implementation at scale can be complex in the capital-intensive oil, gas, and chemicals environment where the challenges of legacy equipment and a large number of suppliers should be addressed,” he cautions. “Refining and petrochemicals have been in the vanguard of process automation for many years, but we are now seeing signs that the other sectors are turning their attention to digital opportunities. Those that succeed could be well-equipped to thrive through business cycles and be responsive to customer and societal expectations.” 