The Democrats take over the House of Representatives this week. The bulk of their power will be used to block Trump any which way. The one roadblock they won’t set up, however, is ending Trump’s trade war with China. “We expect the China trade war to become more entrenched in 2019,” says Cailin Birch, global economist at the Economist Intelligence Unit. For starters, new House leader Nancy Pelosi is a China skeptic. It is unclear if any of her Bay Area constituents can flip her on this. But Pelosi was a critic of China’s joining the World Trade Organization, a move pushed by President Bill Clinton. She thinks China is a headwind for American workers. Even before the ballots were counted in the midterm races on November 6, Reuters reported that the one thing Trump and a Pelosi-led House can agree on is beating up on China.    Financial Times chief economics commentator Martin Wolf also thinks the trade war is forcing China to change the way it does business. Many Chinese business leaders also want this, with the major problem being that it goes against the relatively closed door, top-down politics of the Communist Party. China’s period of stellar outperformance is coming to an end. Suffice it to say, China’s president Xi Jinping knows this. They have to know that their rise was due to the fact that U.S. multinationals helped China get rich quick thanks to three things: weak labor laws, abundant cheap labor, and nonexistent environmental regulations. China became an exporting power (and one of the most polluted countries) thanks in part to American companies that made everything from sneakers to toys there. By the end of this past November, a total of 950,000 foreign-owned companies became registered in China. They brought in over $2 trillion in foreign direct investment and remain a major driving force in China’s economic and social development. See: Dear Chinese Government, The Democrats Won’t Save You — Forbes What’s changing? The days of substandard regulations are changing. It is more costly to run a business there today than the early 2000s. More than that, China is no longer a dollar-a-day economy subservient to foreign companies. They have moved up the value chain. Its tier one cities look like those in any advanced economy. China is becoming more automated, more high tech and trying to become less dependent on U.S. computer hardware to build its own cheaper, larger, louder Silicon Valley. They have the capital, the political will and the brainpower to do it. For Trump’s China watchdogs, namely Peter Navarro and Robert Lighthizer, the way China achieves this is by requiring foreign companies to share their technology. Or, in the worst case, just stealing intellectual property outright and mass producing it themselves. China has few fans in Washington because of this. During the holidays, Trump tweeted out that following a phone call with Xi, the two leaders were beginning to see eye-to-eye on intellectual property and market access. The market’s not buying it. “A slower-growth scenario is taking place now, and that is bad for China,” says Louis Lau, a managing director for Brandes, a San Diego-based investment firm. Their funds hold about 17% Chinese equity. The MSCI Emerging Markets benchmark has around 30% weighted to China and Hong Kong stocks.  Trump may be desperate for a win on trade. He scored one with NAFTA. China is more gnarly. Given the fact that the Democrats don’t want Trump to score any wins, it is conceivable that they can play the role of a barking dog; the bad cop to Trump’s new good cop role: “Deal with me, or deal with Pelosi," Trump can tell Xi. They can try to shift opinion in favor of their party’s ability to deal with China over Trump’s. Meanwhile, Navarro and Lighthizer are of the mind that they should do whatever they can to remove China from the U.S. supply chain. This is the long game and a complicated one to explain to the electorate. Many U.S. businesses, of course, won’t like this strategy as it requires them to relocate—a costly endeavor. See: Trade War Update: How China Avoids Tariffs — Forbes “I think the president is going to want to save face this year,” says John Scannapieco, chair of the global business unit at law firm Baker Donelson in Nashville. “If you look at the tariffs now, they are all on finished products and will be hitting the consumers in the spring. The stock market is down again.” U.S. stocks started 2019 in the red and only got a boost late morning thanks to weaker oil prices. Chinese and American trade negotiators are scheduled to meet on January 7. Both sides have given themselves a very short timeline for talks. The U.S. is just getting over the holidays. China starts its new year next month. Then it’s March and the 90-day ceasefire is over. “I think you will get an extension on the trade truce,” says Scannapieco. “No way they can hammer out changes in 90 days, especially on the core issues like IP.” Gaming the China trade scenario for 2019, the Democrats want to look like the protector of the American worker. As Trump tries to protect the stock market, Pelosi and Senate minority leader (and China hawk) Chuck Schumer will make the case that Trump is more interested in the S&P 500 than sticking to his promises of fixing China-U.S. trade imbalances. If Trump does use the House as a threat of permanent tariffs, he may find himself speaking differently on China matters than his key negotiators. That means Trump suddenly looks to be in disagreement with Navarro and Lighthizer. Is that possible? Either scenario suggests the trade war continues this year, not as a matter of business, but perhaps moreso as a matter of D.C. politics. See: Don’t Believe Beijing. China Really Does Rival The U.S. — Forbes “We do not expect the (trade) discussions to yield much progress,” says Birch, adding that he doubts there will be new tariffs. “The U.S. and China have entered into a strategic competition for long-term economic and technological dominance, and this will make it difficult to find areas of common interest.” China has tariffs on roughly 85% of what it imports from the U.S. Businesses here have been reporting some negative impacts of tariffs on their margins during third-quarter earnings reports. Many farm belt districts elected Democrats who were critical of the trade war, though Trump threw them a bone by getting Xi to remove tariffs on agribusiness. Meanwhile, import costs will remain high, and the competitiveness of U.S. exports is held hostage by a strong dollar. The trade war will “increasingly shift to non-tariff barriers, such as investment restrictions and red tape,” says Birch. “ Each country will try to impact the other economy without worsening their own .”   