The Janet Jackson (“What have you done for me lately?”) Award: The many critics who, when it was reported that the U.S. was a net oil exporter (for one week) moaned that it was only one week, while ignoring the incredible increase in oil production, far beyond what anyone predicted. The Mark Twain (“rumors of my demise have been greatly exaggerated”) Award to OPEC for the sixth time. The Paul Simon Award (“Still Crazy After All These Years”): Colin Campbell and Jean Laherrere, the co-authors of 1998’s “The End of Cheap Oil” in Scientific American, wrote 20-year perspectives on the article without noting that its arguments were basically wrong or that global oil production has risen by 20 mb/d since then. The Paul Ehrlich (I don’t understand resources) Award to Hollywood for “Avengers: Infinity War” where Thanos decided the solution of hunger was to kill half the population instead of planting more food.    The John Mayer Award (“Waiting for the world to change”): COPP24, where many talked about doing something rather than doing something about climate change. The Bullwinkle Award (“This time for sure”) to Democratic Socialists for the obvious The John Mitchell Award (“Watch what we say not what we do” Nixon’s A.G.): Tie between all the countries with aggressive long-term plans for reducing carbon emissions while still investing in coal power (China, and India, among others) The Huey Long Award (as in “Don’t tax you, don’t tax me, tax that fellow behind that tree”): Tie to conservatives (loosely defined) opposing a carbon tax and the rural French protesting the increased gasoline tax (not that they don’t have some legitimate objections) (Note, not Huey Lewis, look him up) The Pogo Award (“we have met the enemy and he is us”): Greenpeace for opposing GMOs which would reduce land and energy usage. The Norm MacDonald (“Wait, what?”) Award: Investors buying Iraqi dinars because they believe Trump will revalue the currency by a thousand times or more The Potemkin Village Award: Those banning plastic straws which account for a negligible amount of ocean waste. Madonna Award (“Vogue, Strike a Pose”): Pipeline protesters who think no pipelines means leaving oil and gas in the ground The Pontius Pilate Award (“I wash my hands of this affair”): College activists who argue for their institutions’ divesting from fossil fuel companies’ equities. The Economist “I called the market turning point by arguing it wouldn’t turn” Award to the story headlined “The Mantra ‘Oil Lower for Longer’ Fades as Price tops $80” to the September 24th article, seven trading days before the nearly $30 collapse occurred. (The Economist published articles in 1998 and 2008 came just prices turned around, confounding their pieces.) 