Argus Research, well known for its high-quality research, does not advise companies, broker trades or manage money. As such, the firm’s analysts offer independent, unbiased research. Here, 10 leading analysts from Argus Research, who often contribute to MoneyShow.com, highlight a few of their favorite stocks part of the annual MoneyShow 2019 Top Picks Report. Stephen Biggar  Charles Schwab SCHW +0%     We expect higher short-term interest rates to drive continued growth in net interest revenue. Based on our expectations for 20% EPS growth in 2019, we view the shares as undervalued at less than 15-times our 2019 EPS estimate. Our 12-month target price is $69. We expect the favorable cyclical backdrop of strong growth in employment and consumer spending to benefit payment processing volumes; as such, we recommend PayPal Holdings. We also look for PayPal PYPL +0%  The company’s unique business model allows individuals to both pay and to be paid for goods and services. PayPal appears favorably valued relative to peers based on our expectations for 20% EPS growth. Our 12-month target price is $100 per share. David Coleman  First Solar FSLR-US +0%  The current solar industry environment is attractive given declining manufacturing costs, the increased efficiency of PV cells and the recent pullback in industry share prices. Solar photovoltaic, a solid-state technology, is emerging as the most viable of the alternative energy solutions, overcoming the limitations presented by mechanical-dependent alternatives such as wind power and solar. As companies continue to invest in R&D and become more efficient, we think that solar will become more competitive with traditional power generation. The total debt/cap ratio of 2.6% is meaningfully below the peer average. The company had cash of $2.7 billion and available credit of $136.6 million at the end of the most recent quarter. Our 12-month target price is $60. John Eade Based in the UK, AstraZeneca PLC focuses on treatments for respiratory, autoimmune, and metabolic conditions, as well as on cardiology, neurology, and oncology drugs. While most companies in the Big Pharma group have moved beyond the patent cliff phase and are beginning to grow, AstraZeneca has lagged, as it faces pricing pressure and generic threats to its former blockbusters Nexium (for ulcers) and Crestor (for high cholesterol). Management is taking steps to address these challenges by cutting costs and assembling a strong new drug pipeline, including a promising checkpoint inhibitor, Imfinzi, to treat various cancers. Imfinzi has now been approved as a first-line treatment for lung cancer in the EU, in addition to the U.S., and as a treatment for bladder cancer. It is also being submitted as a treatment for early-stage lung cancer. There’s more in the pipeline. EU and Japanese regulatory decisions are expected on Forxiga for type-1 diabetes in 2H19. Lezepelumab, a treatment for severe asthma, has received a breakthrough therapy designation from the FDA. There is a solid combination of growth and income. We expect AstraZeneca’s pipeline and management’s focus on cost-cutting to return the company to growth in 2019. The yield of 3.4% is above the Big Pharma industry average. Our12-month target price is $46. Jim Kelleher  Arista Networks is bringing networking into the age of the cloud. Cloud networking brings efficiency and scale benefits to legacy networking environments. Arista’s CloudVision campus for unified wireless and wired leverages its acquisition of Mojo Networks. In our view, Arista has a huge untapped potential with telcos, ISPs and cloud titans. In August, Cisco and Arista ended their patent infringement battle. Arista paid Cisco $400 million in cash, ending a cash drain and the uncertainty of litigation. Revenue and EPS are growing faster than the Arista share price. In 3Q18, revenue rose 28% from the prior year and non-GAAP EPS rose 31%. Management’s 4Q18 guidance calls for roughly 30% revenue and EPS growth. Its full-year forecast calls for EPS growth of 39%. Valuations are attractive. Arista has retraced with the Tech sector and the overall market, even as analysts continue to raise their EPS estimates. The shares are trading at a two-year forward relative P/E of 1.65, close to the five-year average of 1.60; the PEG ratio of 1.47 is below the average of 2.0 for peers. Year-end weakness in the stock has provided an attractive entry point. Our 12-month target price is $320. Bill Seleksky  Helmerich & Payne HP +0%  The recent decline in oil prices has pushed WTI down to the $51-$52 per barrel range, still above the 2017 average of $50 per barrel. The company has an industry-leading financial profile, with a solid balance sheet and a medium-high financial strength rating from Argus. The debt/cap ratio of 10% is significantly below the peer average. The current dividend yield of about 4.8% is the best in the peer group. We continue to view the stock as a potential M&A target based on its product lineup and financial profile. Our 12-month target price is $87. McDonald’s Corp. With more than 37,000 locations in 119 countries, McDonald’s is the world’s largest chain restaurant. In 2017, revenue totaled $22.8 billion and same-store sales rose a strong 5.3%. We expect the company’s “Experience of the Future” plan to drive further same-store sales gains and enable the return of cash to shareholders. The company has raised its dividend for 42 straight years. The most recent dividend increase was nearly 15%, above the average of 6% over past five years. In our view, the dividend hike underscores management’s confidence in its efforts to revive same-store sales growth through its mobile order & pay system, value menus and restaurant renovations. The positive outlook is not reflected in valuation. We believe that prospects for further comp growth in the U.S. are inadequately reflected in the current share price. We recently raised our 12-month target price by $20 to $210. David Toung  Amgen AMGN +0%  The company has more than $28 billion in cash and marketable securities to fund M&A, licensing deals, stock buybacks and dividend increases. Our 12-month target price is $220.  Stryker SYK +0%  Stryker’s strong offerings of O/R equipment and neurovascular devices provide a balanced portfolio of orthopedic implants and surgical equipment. Management plans to use cash to fund acquisitions and stock buybacks. Our 12-month target price is $210. Bio-Techne Corp. is a supplier of instruments, reagents and specialized proteins for the global biotech industry. Its products help to advance the drug development process. Sales in fiscal 1Q19 were strong both domestically and internationally, with more than 30% growth in China. The company has made 14 acquisitions over the last five years, substantially expanding its product offerings. We expect a brisk pace of new deals to drive sales growth going forward. The TECH share price has declined 14% over past three months, creating an attractive entry point. Our 12-month target price is $230. Chris Graja  TJX Companies is a recent upgrade. TJX’s combination of growing store traffic, single-A credit ratings, and 22% annualized dividend growth (over the last five years) makes this a stock we were pleased to upgrade during the recent market pullback. TJX is trading at an enterprise value of 14-times trailing EBIT, below the median of 17.5 for peers designated by Bloomberg . The company is a relevant retailer. Consumers will not tolerate significant price increases in this competitive environment, so increasing traffic becomes crucial for driving sales. The company’s flagship Marmaxx division has delivered quarterly increases in store traffic for 17 straight quarters — an impressive achievement given the sector-wide decline in traffic. TJX has posted 22 consecutive years of rising comp sales and only one comp decline in its 41-year history. We expect square footage to increase 4%-5% annually and same-store sales to rise about 2%. We expect a few percentage points of EPS growth from share buybacks. TJX has repurchased more than $10 billion of its stock over the last seven fiscal years. It plans to repurchase $2.5 billion-$3 billion in the current FY19. The stock appears well positioned for the all-important holiday shopping season. Our 12-month target price is $55 a share. Jasper Hellweg  Vertex Pharmaceuticals VRTX +0%  The company’s deep new product pipeline includes a number of potential catalysts. If current pipeline products are approved, company could offer products for up to 90% of cystic fibrosis patients, up from 45% at the beginning of 2018. The EU recently approved Kalydeco (which generated 31% of 3Q sales) for the treatment of cystic fibrosis in children ages 12-24 months, expanding its addressable market. Vertex’s products have a history of broad access and coverage from commercial and government payers. Our target price of $200 implies a projected 2019 P/E of 44, well below the historical average multiple. Our 12-month target price is $200. Gary Hovis  CenterPoint Energy CNP +0%  Assuming that economic conditions continue to improve in the Southwest, we expect the company to invest its cash in non-regulated energy-related assets that have the potential for higher long-term returns. We believe that CenterPoint is committed to optimizing the value of its portfolio and that it has the potential to generate total returns for shareholders of 7%-8% annually over the next four to five years. Our 12- month target price is $33. Jacob Kilstein The electric utility business at CMS Energy CMS +0%  The company benefits from a favorable location in Michigan, with a rising population, a high proportion of skilled labor, a business-friendly regulatory environment and relatively low exposure to severe weather events. We believe that the company’s consistent, above-average growth more than offsets concerns about the stock’s high valuation or the negative impact of rising interest rates. The shares trade at 20.5-times our 2019 EPS forecast, above the peer median of 18.8 for electric and gas utilities with fully regulated operations. Our $56 target implies a P/E of 22.4, which we feel is appropriate given the company’s consistent above-average performance. Our 12-month target price is $56 per share. These stock picks from Argus Research are part of the newly-released MoneyShow 2019 Top Picks Report: The Best Stock and ETF Ideas for the Coming Year, featuring 100+ investment ideas from the advisory industry’s top experts. Get your copy here. 