Sanctions and isolation are having an impact on the Russian economy. Although Russia is not a big exporter to the U.S., canceled energy and defense contracts in Europe coupled with bans on financing Russia’s key lenders have had an impact on the economy. What else can explain the lackluster growth story in the country since 2014? Even higher oil prices have done little to lift the Russian economy. On Monday, former Finance Ministry and current Audit Chamber chairman, Alexei Kudrin, said that Russian wage earners are lucky to see a one tenth of one percent wage increase this year. Compare that to over 3% in the U.S. Russians saw nearly no income growth last year, with gains between zero and 0.4%, according to Audit Chamber figures released on January 2. According to them, inflation was the main culprit, which turned out to be higher than the forecast as growth continues to be sluggish because of sanctions. Inflation exceeded the October official forecast of 2.7% annually, hitting 4.2%. Meanwhile, Russian GDP growth last year was 1.5%. “The real incomes of citizens, if they have grown, have grown by tenths of a percent,” Kudrin was quoted saying by the Vedomosti business daily. In December, President Vladimir Putin said real disposable incomes for the year were up by just 0.5%. Prior to that, the official forecast of the Ministry of Economic Development was for wage growth closer to 3%. See: Russians Kick Off 2019 Frustrated With Everything — Forbes Russia is also still trying to reform its economy. The reform push has been going on since the dismantling of Communist Party rule in 1991. Since then, promises to privatize have largely fallen flat. Most of the privatization of state assets was either sold to Party friends and allies in the ’90s or was merely opened up as a minority shareholder opportunity on the Moscow stock exchange. Numerous Russian banks have folded, having failed to make the segue from a state-controlled system to a private one. The central bank of Russia closed hundreds of banks and is now the country’s biggest lender after Sberbank and VTB Bank. Both of those banks are also controlled by the state and are sanctioned by Washington. Moreover, Russians have been facing some major reforms to the public pension system. That has also left them with less money. And while that is not entirely connected to the wage story, it is part of the overall Russian wealth and income story, a story that looks a bit bleaker at least in the short term. That’s because Putin’s pension rules are still be rewritten. Russia’s Pension Fund (PFR) paid out around 6.4 trillion rubles last year, with revenues of 8.3 trillion rubles, of which 11.3% comes from money transferred from the federal budget in order to make ends meet. Like many other emerging markets, most notably Brazil, Putin’s Russia is actually ahead of the game in preparing the social security system for solvency. Brazil and Argentina are faced with similar highly unpopular changes to their public pension system. One reason is life expectancy, of course. Even in Russia, where men are expected to live 73 years instead of 67 years old currently and women are expected to live until they are 80, three years longer than the current average. As a result, the easiest thing to do was to raise the retirement age to 65 years for men and 63 for women along with hiking the requirements for time served in publicly funded positions, like school teachers. The move is expected to reduce pension fund transfer costs from the federal budget to 0.9% of GDP by 2024, according to the Ministry of Finance. Recent changes have not led to any sort of financial windfall for Moscow. Due to some compromises for those approaching retirement this year, the government will have to spend around 12.2% of federal revenues to help fund social security. Russia has not been a sexy story for emerging market investors. Oil has not cooperated much either, falling again in the last few weeks. The VanEck Russia ETF (RSX) is down 13.6% over the last 12 months despite higher oil prices last year. It has only beat the MSCI Emerging Markets benchmark because of the China weighting in that index. Outside of Russia, China is the one emerging market with the most economic and geopolitical headwinds at the moment. Year-to-date, RSX is up 5.2%, even beating the S&P 500. If geopolitics favor Russia this year, and if oil can go up again, then Russia might finally climb out from under the rock it’s been forced under over the last three years. Over the last five, no other BRIC country has done as poorly for its investors as Russia.