As much for amusement as for education, the following stories chart perceptions of the oil price by month (with the actual price for the month in parentheses): January: Oil could hit $80 per barrel by the end of 2018, says portfolio manager ($63.7) February: [Investment Bank] sees oil surging above $80 in 6 months (62.23) March: Fed's [economist] says the market is not appreciating the risk of an oil price spike (62.73)    April: An Oil Price Rally Is Likely (66.25) May: [Oil company] CEO says oil price could hit $100 'in coming months' (69.98) June: Iran sanctions could soon push oil prices above $90 a barrel, [investment bank] says (67.87) July: Oil prices could top $120 before year-end (70.98) August: A move in crude oil to $50 could come as quickly as a surge above $100, says veteran oil investor (68.06)  September: Crude Oil Price Forecast: $100 All the Rage ($70.23) October: Oil price: heading towards triple digits? (70.75) November: Why the oil price tailspin may be short lived (56.96) And the punchline: December 19: America's top oil-producing region has a new problem: $40 crude I removed the names of the various pundits out of a sense of fairness, although the links are there for the purpose of verifying the quotes, because first, a quote or headline out of context can be extremely misleading. Oil prices “could” hit $100 is not a bad forecast, but a statement of conditional fact. Unless the pundit thinks something like oil prices could hit $100 if the cocoa crop is robust. Second, short-term prices are very volatile and difficult to predict, so that it is extremely easy to find bad forecasts from any given pundit—including me. And frankly, I have been somewhat selective in my choice, probably picking more price bulls than bears because it looks more amusing given current low prices. If prices were near $100, I probably would have picked out the bearish stories. So, what actually happened this year? First, OPEC plus helpers showed pretty good discipline, more than most expected (probably including themselves). This brought the market back into balance earlier than anticipated, and made the sentiment bullish. Combined with the surprise announcement in May that the U.S. would reimpose sanctions on Iran, the possibility for market tightening later in the year dominated thinking. That, combined with an acceleration in the decline of Venezuelan production this year (see figure), was the major factor in prices going above $70. So why has the price so suddenly plummeted? The initial decision by the Saudis, Russians and others to offset potential losses of Iranian oil, along with the Trump Administration’s granting of waivers to major Iranian customers, was a major element, suggesting that the market would not be short of oil (and possibly see the surplus grow). But market fundamentals have also played a big part, especially the unexpectedly strong rise of U.S. shale oil production. The table below shows that, in December of 2017, the IEA was predicting that the demand for OPEC oil would drop by 0.4 mb/d in 2018, whereas the latest estimate puts the actual drop at 1.2 mb/d. (OECD demand grew more than expected, non-OECD demand less.) U.S. oil production has grown by roughly 2 mb/d in 2018, about twice what was expected in late 2017. The figure below shows the forecast growth for 2018 in U.S. oil production as it evolved from the December 2017 market reviews of the IEA, OPEC, and the EIA, until the most recent publication. The EIA has been closest in its forecast and was earliest to revise its prediction, which could represent either an optimistic bias on their part of better data and analysis. (Washington being closer to the shale fields than Paris or Vienna.) Interestingly, in the first half of 2018, U.S. production was up less than 1.5 mb/d year on year, accelerating in the summer to surpass 2 mb/d by August. The EIA seems to have anticipated this, while forecasts by the IEA and OPEC appear to have been reactive, rising only as the actual production rose. Again, this might be more luck on the part of the EIA, but possibly also reflecting the fact that covering the entire world oil market makes it difficult to spot changes. (Conservatism is also typical and normal for such forecasts.) Lower oil prices might mean less shale oil growth this year than last (something most predict), although growing pipeline capacity in the Permian is expected to offset that somewhat. Overall, though, while some recovery from currently depressed prices is likely, the supply picture does not support sharply higher prices this year, especially given the growing pessimism about the global economy.   