The oil price The oil price is slipping towards $50 a barrel. It dropped over a third in the last quarter of the year. The drivers have been worries over excess supply and concerns over a faltering global economy. There are plenty of views on either side as to the likely direction from here: some believe the price will be driven higher as spare capacity declines, sanctions on Iranian exports mount and inflationary pressures grow. However, others believe a weakening US economy will lead to downward pressure on oil prices. The direction is important. If the oil price stays low it will be a juicy stimulus for the global economy, which could stave off recession for at least another year or so. This would be particularly useful for oil-importing countries such as South Africa or India but would also ease pressure on developed market central banks to raise rates (because inflation would be lower). However, if it spikes higher, it could hasten recession. Global trade wars The problem hasn’t gone away. There remains a vast trade deficit between the US and China and neither Trump nor his Democrat opponents are inclined to ignore it. China is also accused of stealing intellectual property and manufacturing jobs. These are all legitimate concerns for the US and will not be resolved in the current hiatus in US/China tensions.    Trump has been winning to date, but the 2020 election is looming and he needs the stock market and economy firing. In China, economic growth also weakening and there are signs that companies are moving manufacturing elsewhere, to less controversial countries. As Goldman Sachs said in a recent report: "If the full 25 percent tariffs are levied on all imports from China the earnings impact could be significant, potentially eliminating any profit growth next year". Both side have an incentive to find an agreement, but that doesn’t mean they will and in the meantime, markets will get restless. Politics and populism The FT has called populism the true legacy of the global financial crisis Many of the recent problems can be laid at the feet of austerity and governments are aware of the problem. Bob Jolly, head of global macro strategy at Schroders, says governments are loosening the purse strings in response: “Whether it be the more spectacular fiscal splurge of Donald Trump, in the form of substantial tax cuts, or the more measured 2018 budget announcement from the UK government, billed as marking the end of several years of austerity, governments are taking steps to make life easier for their electorates, pretty much globally. Whether it be caused by a rise in populism or improved government finances, fiscal policy is more of a global economic tailwind.” Again, this may counter the threat of recession in the short-term. The US Dollar A strong US Dollar has been a headwind for many countries around the world this year, particularly among emerging markets. As JP Morgan says: “The US exchange rate is critical in shaping financial asset returns for investors around the globe. It has a major impact on U.S. inflation and interest rates, powerfully impacts global commodity prices and is a key determinant of unhedged returns on international investments.” Few believe the strength of 2018 is likely to be repeated in 2019. JP Morgan adds: “From the dollar’s presently overvalued state, it is reasonable to assume that the currency should follow a path laid out by fundamental forces. Together, these forces—including the U.S.’s significant current account imbalance, a convergence in global interest rates and economic growth rates and the gradual abandonment of the U.S.’s strong dollar policy— underlie our assumption of a gradual decline in the U.S. dollar exchange rate over the next 10 to 15 years.” This would be good news for emerging markets. Big tech The past few months have spelt bad news for big tech. However, John Bennett, director of European equities at Janus Henderson Investors, says the ‘bear has only just shown up’ for US tech stocks. He points out that sectors typically peak out when they hit 30% of the S&P, just about where technology has hit today. Certainly, investors may do better to think creatively about their technology exposure. It is worth watching also is the innovation coming out of emerging markets, whether it is clean energy or payments systems, there are some global players emerging.   