Remember when Russia and cryptocurrency were a big deal? Russia and crypto seemed to go hand in hand. At least that was the case throughout nearly all of 2016 and 2017. Go to a Consensus crypto event and you were sure to run into Russians talking about their “projects.” The initial coin offering (ICO) was a favorite of Russian developers, and—of course—scammers. With the ICO market pretty much dead, the crypto world in Russia is not what it used to be. It has lost its shine and its hype. Russian central bank president Elvira Nabiullina recently remarked how “fortunate” it was that her country is no longer “crypto crazy.” That doesn’t mean the Russians have lost interest in blockchain technology and its counterpart, the cryptocurrency startup. “The majority of investors have their doubts about investing in Russian crypto-startups. There are a lot of red flags for international investors,” says John Slyusarev, managing partner of SMC Capital in New York. SMC is a venture capital firm investing in blockchain startups from Shanghai, the U.S. and Europe. None are based in Russia, though the European ones have Russian developers and founders. “I think the Russian projects with Russian founders have the hardest time finding money,” he says. “There has been some blowouts in Russian Ponzi projects and fraud schemes that have hurt Russia’s reputation.” In November, North Dakota state regulators uncovered a Russian cryptocurrency scam and shut it down. In September, a Russian-based company named Coin Miner was charged by Texas securities regulators for committing securities fraud. In May, new Russian and Ukrainian blockchain startup Decenturion was on display at the Consensus forum in New York. They issued passports. It didn’t take long for the Reddit community and other Bitcoin forum participants to call it out for being a Ponzi scheme. The coin now trades at around $3, according to CoinGecko, a loss of 98% from its launch last spring. Sadly, Russians seem to be the ones affiliated with crypto fraud. Despite all that, the Asian exchanges love the Russian market. Two of the biggest exchanges are expanding in Russia. China’s Binance and Singapore-based Huobi have offices in Moscow and St. Petersburg. Their presence suggests Russia is still a contender in crypto markets. Russia has been slow to regulate the nascent digital assets market. In 2017, there was talk of Russian securities regulators building a blockchain platform with the developers behind the Waves Platform in Moscow. While Waves still exists, the Moscow exchange has moved on from becoming a crypto trader. Waves looks to be in limbo. Its web page’s news section hasn’t been updated since June 6. One of the reasons the entire blockchain/crypto market is so tough in Russia is because the Russian Central Bank is not a fan. Nabiullina is against legalizing trading cryptocurrency for rubles and that puts a damper on the retail investing market. The central bank is expected to devise new laws this year to make business rules more clear for cryptocurrency miners in Russia and set the ground rules for raising funds via cryptocurrency tokens. Very little movement is expected on the latter. According to crypto traders in Moscow, the Moscow Stock Exchange (MoEX) is in talks with Asian and European exchanges regarding creating custodial accounts to securely hold digital assets. “Once they have that in place, I think the central bank might accept that MoEX is the true avenue for crypto in Russia,” says Dan Wolfe, managing director of a cryptocurrency fund at the Specialized Research and Investment Group (SPRING) in Moscow. “There is tension between Putin and other leaders who see crypto as a way for companies to raise capital,” he says. The ICO Grows Up There’s a new token offering in town, and it promises to be a big deal this year. Can the Russian’s be as big in the STO world as they were in the ICO world? Speak to any serious Russian blockchain developer and crypto true believer—and whether they are living in St. Pete’s or in Palo Alto they will say the initial coin offering market is what brought Russians to the crypto startup game in droves. Russians are now joining forces with the venture capital firms to talk about the crypto world’s latest “project”—the Security Token Offering, or STO. In the simplest, non-CalTechie way of describing the STO, it’s venture capital meets the stock market meets Bitcoin (or some other coin yet to be created). It’s considered the latest move to professionalize the cryptocurrency industry, an industry that has gone bust over the last 12 months. Last December, Bitcoin was worth around $20,000. It starts 2019 at $3,817. “I think you will find that about a third of the STOs are going to either be Russian founders or Russian developers,” Slyusarev says, with a caveat. “I doubt you will find any of them being launched in Russia.” Slyusarev’s fund invested in one STO last year. He said they might invest in more this year. Regulatory matters will keep Russia closed off to this market. “The STO is appealing, but there are regulatory hurdles to doing this in Russia,” says Gregory Klumov, cofounder and CEO of STASIS.net, a tokenization platform based in Malta. “Without access to global markets, Russia won’t be able to develop a robust security token market anyway, and so STOs won’t be any better than existing ways of raising and distributing capital in Russia.” Well-known developers in the space, Vitalik Buterin of Ethereum and Pavel Durov of the Telegram Open Network, a spin-off of the Telegram messaging application, are prime examples of Russian blockchain brainpower. Buterin has his Ether coins. Durov is supposed to launch his cryptocurrency next year, to be used on his newly developed blockchain platform. Other lesser-known Russians have become millionaires thanks to crypto. They travel the world, touting projects to blockchain journalists, posting pictures of themselves on their Instagram accounts, somewhere in the tropics, spending money to find themselves, and maybe an investor or two. From afar, it really does look like the Russian crypto market is in trouble. But that goes for a lot of other countries as well. The ICO world Russians happily played in is totally crumbling. Russians know how to muddle through a crisis, but the question is if they can muddle through the crypto crisis and come to some sort of blockchain biz breakthrough? Who is willing to bet that Russia pulls this off? “Russia is still better off than Turkey. Or Argentina,” says Vladimir Popov, CEO of Synergis. He’s best known as “Menaskop” among cryptocurrency aficionados. He thinks Russia can weather the crisis and time will lead to more local investor interest. “Remember the crisis of 2012 in Cyprus ... it led to one of the first Bitcoin booms. If you think we are on the threshold of another world crisis, something that can even be like 2008, then I see all the prospects for growth of cryptocurrency as a hedging instrument,” he says. That is a mantra repeated by many. Bitcoin becomes a safe haven. Like gold. So far that has proven incorrect. Gold prices are rising. Bitcoin prices are falling. Crypto fund managers like Wolfe at SPRING in Moscow believe the real investment case for cryptocurrencies “is not for things to go up in the short term, but for a fundamental reevaluation of the asset class within the next five to seven years,” he says. “It will be driven mainly by countries with volatile currencies.” Think Turkey. Or Argentina. Diego Gutierrez Zaldivar, CEO of RIF Labs in Argentina, a blockchain solutions provider, thinks Wolfe is right. Countries in emerging and frontier markets are seen gravitating towards crypto if another major economic crisis occurs. “This is where I think you will see more interest in digital currencies,” Zaldivar says. “If it is more stable than their own currency, and easier to get access to then the dollar, then why not crypto?” While Russia’s ruble is not as volatile as the Argentine peso, Russian politics are volatile thanks to Western sanctions and oil prices. Russians will be involved in crypto again this year. Retail investors in Russia will as well, if Binance’s calculation is correct. But Russian ICOs have come and gone. That market is dead. STOs are the new thing, but the Russians looking to raise money that way are setting up shop in Singapore or here in the U.S. Meanwhile, the professional investor in Russia continues cutting their losses. "We have fewer positions now,” Wolfe says. Their Moscow fund now holds 12 tokens. They held 20 in a portfolio last October, two months before Bitcoin hit $20,000. “It's been impossible to pick a winner over the last four months unless you’re buying some obscure coin that is probably being manipulated. We are focusing on long-term exposure now,” Wolfe says. Russian coins or no Russian coins, Wolfe warns that investors “should avoid this asset class if they don’t have the stomach for it.” 