As oil and gas majors continue to make up for time lost by ignoring quick turnaround U.S. shale projects, industry giant Chevron (NYSE:CVX) recently announced it will also up its focus on "short-cycle investments", a move that could have medium term implications for its share price. In an investor presentation on January 11, 2019, the company said it would spend $9 billion to $10 billion per year through to 2022 on projects that yield quick returns, primarily focused on the Permian Basin; the world's biggest shale prospect currently in play. The amount equals to around 50% of Chevron's capital budget. The spending call is as much about bolstering production volumes and supporting revenue stream as it is about responding to pressure from competitors. For instance, in July 2018 rival BP joined the U.S. shale boom via its $10.5B purchase of assets in Eagle Ford, Haynesville and Permian basins. So the announcement ahead of Chevron's financials due on February 1, is a positive one with the company's oil and gas production up 7% on an annualized basis. Following the update, rating agency Moody's raised its outlook for Chevron from 'stable' to 'positive' affirming its Aa2 rating, and an upgrade might yet follow. The change reflects Moody's expectation that Chevron's gross debt outstanding will continue to decline through 2020 towards 2014 levels, while its production volume will rise to over 3 million barrels of oil equivalent per day (boepd) from under 2.6 million boepd in 2014. The production uptick is only nominally higher given the length of time under consideration, but the company's financial takings are of a higher margin given the liquefied natural gas (LNG) projects brought online, durable production cost reductions and divestitures of lower margin production. Furthermore, Moody's says Chevron's capital re-investment requirements are also smaller and more flexible, with more than two-thirds of its 2019 capital spending expected to generate cash flow within two years. "This combination of debt reduction and lower capital requirements will make Chevron's improved credit metrics more resilient to periods of weaker commodity prices. Ability to grow production going forward through more flexible short-cycle capital spending provides the potential for Chevron's rating to rise to Aa1," the agency added. For 2019, Moody's forecasts that Chevron will generate about $6 billion of free cash flow with retained cash flow (RCF)/net debt around 70%, incorporating the company's announced $20 billion capital and exploratory (C&E) budget and the agency's current base assumption of a $65 per barrel Brent oil price average for the year. Even in a lower price scenario of $50 Brent prices, the rating agency believes the oil giant could still generate a modest amount of free cash flow and its RCF/net debt would exceed 40%. Compare this to back data from 2015, when Chevron had $18 billion of negative free cash flow with Brent averaging about $52 because the company's capital spending was over twice as high and it generated meaningfully less operating cash flow. "This demonstrates the progress Chevron has made in lowering its break-even oil price sufficient to cover its capital reinvestment needs and dividends since oil prices collapsed in late 2014," says Pete Speer, Senior Vice President at Moody's. Be that as it may, Chevron's share price prospects fail to fire up my imagination and I am not alone in the market. A Reuters survey of 22 analysts offering 12-month price forecasts for Chevron Corp has a median target of 136.00 USD, with an upper estimate of 160.00 USD and a lower one of 125.00 USD. The median estimate represents an uptick of over 20% from the company's recent level of ~110 USD; a mark it was at in February last year. Chevron does have a strong liquidity profile characterized by a sizable cash balance (~$10 billion of cash at September 30, 2018), free cash flow generation, a demonstrated ability to sell assets through commodity price cycles (e.g. its recent pullout from the North Sea), and carries an earnings per share of ~$3.80 as per its latest fiscal year. However, with the oil market in no mood for a sudden and lasting uptick in prices given the prospect of a slowdown in China and Europe, changing consumption patterns and supply-side dynamic, my prediction is towards the lower end of the said median. That places a possible 12-month uptick in Chevron's share price in the region of 11% to 12% from current levels, which is decent but not spectacular. Ditto applies to Chevron's dividend yield – its current level of ~4%+ compares favorably with market giant ExxonMobil (NYSE:XOM). However, it is considerably below the yields of Royal Dutch Shell (LON:RDSB at ~6%+) and BP (LON:BP at ~7.5%). In summation, while the average market rating on the stock is 'buy', I be would be in the 'hold' camp rather than add or buy Chevron shares. As things stand, the company is likely to muddle through the modest middle in what will be a testing year for the oil market. Disclaimer: The above article is based on publicly available information, statements from the company, third parties and the author’s own analysis. The article and its content does not constitute solicitation, recommendation or investment advice to trade the aforementioned company’s shares, and/or oil and gas futures, options or products. The author has no positions in the aforementioned company. Global oil and gas markets can be highly volatile; as such opinions in the sector and on companies operating in them may change instantaneously and without notice.