And just like that, everybody stopped talking about the possibility of $30 oil. Remember those gaudy days, all of two weeks ago, when the price for WTI had dropped to $42 per barrel and fears were rising that the OPEC+ countries had somehow lost all control over the market and prices would continue to fall? Yeah, those were some good times, huh? Today, January 15, the WTI price has recovered to over $51/bbl, a rise of 25% in two weeks. That did not happen because of suddenly higher global demand, because no such thing has taken place; nor did it happen due to a dramatically lower U.S. rig count, since the DrillingInfo domestic rig count has dropped by just 15 rigs since January 1; and it didn't happen due to the much-publicized recent curtailments in Canadian crude production, which have thus far taken about 140,000 barrels of oil per day off of the market. So, why did the price go right back up the last two weeks after tanking so dramatically towards the end of December? The answer has largely to do with recent actions taken by OPEC+ nations. First, despite all the stories we saw throughout December that the OPEC+ announcement at the first of that month that it would cut its collective crude export volumes by a total of 1.2 million bopd was an inadequate action, crude prices began moving upwards as the cuts began fully going into effect in early January. Second was the announcement by Saudi Arabia that it plans to cut its own production to just 7.1 million bopd by the end of January, a drop of more than 3 million bopd from its September peak. The simple fact of the matter is that no other country on earth has the ability to raise and cut its oil production volumes so dramatically in such a short period of time as does the House of Saud. By the same token, no other group of oil producing countries has the ability to pool its resources to impact oil prices in the way the OPEC+ group does. There is no question that OPEC+ spent much of the second half of 2018 mis-judging the market by adding more export volumes in anticipation of the renewal of U.S. sanctions on Iran. But the truth of that matter is that they were simply caught off-guard by the last minute decision by the Trump Administration to grant waivers to China and India, two of Iran's largest customers. Prior to October 2, when it became apparent to the markets that the Trump waivers meant crude markets had been substantially over-supplied, the OPEC+ agreement to limit exports, which began in December of 2016, had been extraordinarily successful in gradually raising crude prices and reducing price volatility, its two major goals. The discipline exhibited by most of the participating nations was impressive, meeting or exceeding 90% in most months. Miscalculations regarding the global market for crude oil are inevitable, and the miscalculation made by OPEC+ this past summer and fall was a major one, no doubt. But it now appears likely that the retrenchment agreed to among the cartel in December, coupled with the renewed focus by Saudi Arabia to move prices higher, will succeed in returning crude prices to more sustainable levels during the first half of 2019. U.S. Shale, for all its robust production increases and swagger, didn't do that. It is something that only OPEC, teaming with Russia and the other non-OPEC countries who are party to the OPEC+ agreement, can do. Far from being dead, OPEC and its coordinating partners remain extremely influential over the crude markets, and that is unlikely to change anytime soon.