As Nicolas Maduro begins a new term as Venezuela's president, the Trump administration is considering expanding its sanctions regime to include Venezuela's oil exports and is trying to push Maduro aside. Since Venezuela is home to the world's largest oil reserves, the implications abound for the oil market, American gasoline prices and even Trump-Russia relations. The U.S. has refused to recognize Maduro as the legitimate president of Venezuela after he was reelected in a controversial election beset with claims of fraud. The U.S. has now recognized the current president of Venezuela's national assembly, Juan Guaido, as the "Interim President of Venezuela," and it is now actively backing him as the Venezuelan opposition leader. This comes amidst massive protests in Venezuela as people take to the streets in support of Guaido. The U.S. already has a variety of sanctions in place against Maduro and his supporters, but it has so far held off on sanctioning Venezuela's oil exports. Right now, Venezuela is largely dependent on the cash it generates from its oil exports . These exports have declined significantly in recent years as Venezuela's oil industry was devastated by low oil prices. Venezuela has the largest oil reserves on the planet, but the national oil company that develops and exploits that oil, PdVSA, is only able to produce around 1.17 million barrels of oil per day. At its height, Venezuela produced 3.4 million barrels per day. Right now, Venezuela sells a little less than half of its crude oil to the United States. The largest importers of Venezuelan oil include Citgo , Chevron CVX +0%  However, the effect of sanctions on U.S. exports to Venezuela could become more significant. If the President issues sanctions on Venezuela's oil exports, it is likely that Venezuela will retaliate by halting all purchases of U.S. petroleum products. (Yes, despite its massive oil reserves, Venezuela actually needs to import petroleum products because its refineries are barely operational). The most recent information from the EIA shows that the U.S. exported over 3 million barrels of petroleum products to Venezuela in October, less than one percent of U.S. production. The other effect of the sanctions under consideration by the Trump administration involves Russia and China. Venezuela is heavily indebted to Russia and China. In fact, much of the cash it generates from selling crude oil actually goes to pay the interest on loans it has from Russia and China. U.S. sanctions would decrease this revenue, forcing Russian oil firm Rosneft and Chinese interests to seize Venezuelan oil assets outside of Venezuela . The most significant of these assets are the refineries in the U.S. owned by Citgo, which are collateral on Venezuela's debts to Rosneft . If Rosneft moves to take ownership of the 49.9% of Citgo shares being used as collateral, the U.S. government could try to block the acquisition through the Committee of Foreign Investments in the United States (CFIUS). The CFIUS could block this on grounds that Rosneft owning half of Citgo threatens U.S. national security. It would be a compelling standoff between Venezuela, Russia and the U.S.   