As a leadership struggle unfolds in crisis-stricken Venezuela, the economic and geopolitical consequences will surely reverberate beyond Caracas. Venezuela’s largest energy trading partner –the United States – has thrust itself into the fray with serious diplomatic pressure and new economic sanctions. On January 23, President Donald Trump announced support for Venezuela's new opposition leader and self-declared interim president Juan Guaidó, putting the United States on a collision course with the far left Maduro regime, and its longtime allies, the Russian Federation and Cuba. The move comes months after the international community condemned Nicolás Maduro’s 2018 election victory as fraudulent. The White House has since doubled-down. Monday January 29, National Security Advisor John Bolton and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin announced the imposition of sanctions against Venezuela’s national oil company Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A (PDVSA). The restrictions would amount to $7 billion in blocked assets today, and an estimated $11 billion in export revenues over the course of 2019, according to Bolton. American refiners will still be able to purchase Venezuelan crude if PDVSA is willing to sell, but payments would need to be routed to special blocked accounts out of reach of the Maduro Regime. Maduro responded to Trump's earlier declaration of support for Guaidó by severing diplomatic ties and ordering all American embassy officials out of Venezuela, at the same time recalling his own diplomats from Washington. The United States is still maintaining critical personnel in Caracas – citing that they will not recognize the demands of an illegitimate authority. The Trump Administration also appointed the veteran diplomat and the former Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs in the Reagan Administration Elliott Abrams as the Venezuela special envoy. Abrams served as a Deputy National Security Advisor for Global Democracy Strategy in the George W. Bush second administration. President Trump is taking a commendable stance in this high-stakes geoeconomic and geopolitical game. The outcome of the power struggle in Venezuela will not be confined to Venezuelan internal political arrangement or U.S. – Venezuela energy trade, but will doubtless carry over into the global marketplace. The troubled U.S.-Russia relationship will also see heightened tensions, as the two countries have positioned themselves as key stakeholders in the conflict. The Energy Umbilical Cord Political and economic chaos in Venezuela has kept the energy markets on edge given Venezuela’s still prominent (but declining) role in global oil trade. The OPEC member sits atop the world’s largest proven oil reserves of more than 300 billion barrels – greater than even those of Saudi Arabia. Despite this, Venezuela has faced declining production after years of poor management and financial decisions forced by the socialist government, further exacerbated by the sudden drop in oil prices in 2014. Once producing 2.3 million barrels per day of oil in January 2016 (and over 3 million b/d in 2008), Venezuela’s PDVSA is now only mustering 1.2 million barrels per day. See the “Dwindling Production” graph below. This trajectory is similar to that of another mismanaged and politically radical petrostate: Iran. With oil output now on par with war-torn Libya and below that of Angola, Venezuela is suffering from a critical drop in export revenues, further exacerbated by lukewarm oil prices and now soon to be enacted U.S. sanctions. The situation is so disastrous that domestic refiners do not have the manpower to meet countrywide demand for finished petroleum products like gasoline and diesel (see the Staffing Shortage graph below). In a twist of irony, the Chavista regime must import refined oil goods from the ‘Yankee Imperialists’, to satisfy its fuel needs. In October 2018, Maduro’s government imported 3.2 million barrels of U.S.-refined petroleum products. While the shale revolution has significantly reduced America’s oil import dependence, the country is by no means energy independent. Legacy U.S. refineries in the Gulf Coast rely on heavy crude as they have not been retrofitted to take the light-sweet crude abundant in domestic shale formations. With the Keystone XL pipeline mothballed, first by the Obama Administration and now by American courts, heavy crude from our closest ally Canada is either not available in sufficient quantities or not economically viable because of the high transportation costs via rail or truck. This means that the United States depends on heavy crude imports from the Maduro regime – a whopping 500,000 barrels per day in 2018. The new sanctions out of the Treasury Department mean that Gulf Coast refineries could face a shortage in heavy crude oil, spiking prices and making it difficult for some U.S. petroleum processors to operate in the already low-margin refining business. Companies like Chevron (NYSE:CVX), Valero Energy (NYSE:VLO) and PBF Energy (NYSE:PBF) are among the largest importers of Venezuelan oil, and would no doubt feel the pinch of losing access to some of the world’s cheapest heavy crude. Citgo, the PDVSA subsidiary operating out of Houston, Texas will be hit hardest. However, sanctions will have a much greater impact on cash-strapped Venezuela than the United States. U.S. purchases of PDVSA oil have been on the decline over the past decade, down 50% since 2008. On the other hand, some 40% of Venezuela’s total crude exports being sent to the U.S., according to the EIA, meaning they need us more than we need them. Still, the White House will have to brace for the possibility of a price spike in global oil markets as producers adjusted to the disruption of Venezuelan supply, something that President Trump has shown sensitivity to in the past. Thus far, though, the sanctions announcement has barely budged oil prices, with WTI and Brent up just 0.4% and 0.3% respectively as of this writing. Trump cand thank a well-supplied oil market, sluggish global economy, and shrinking activity in China's manufacturing sector for now. Russian Mercenaries Go to Venezuela The current U.S. position is putting additional pressure on its strained relationship with Russia. Venezuela is an important strategic ally for Putin – with Moscow recently investing billions of dollars into the oil and mining industries, more than $17 billion. Russia’s state oil company Rosneft, for example, is the largest investor for Venezuela’s failing PDVSA. Russian president Vladimir Putin has already condemned the U.S. position in backing the Guaidó, calling it “destructive outside interference.” In a show of support for its ally, the Kremlin has reportedly dispatched hundreds of private military contractors (mercenaries) to aid in the security and protection of Maduro. Hundreds of Cuban intelligence officers are already there. Beyond sending hired guns, the Russian’s could also deploy a host of asymmetric responses to deter Western intervention and protect their interests in Venezuela. These could include military escalation in Ukraine or recognizing a pro-Russian political contender there, aggression towards Belarus with the purpose of annexation, or a targeted cyber campaign against U.S. assets. The White House should be prepared for any such an eventuality. The current situation in Venezuela is still unfolding, but for the sake of its citizens, we should all hope for a peaceful leadership transition. Even then, Venezuela can only return to its former prosperity if it learns from its past mistakes. Socialism does not work. The culprits of government greed, corruption, and human rights abuses must be brought to justice. Economic diversification, appropriate regulation, and market liberalization must also follow to prevent this state-run catastrophe from ever occurring again. With Assistance from Natasha Orehowsky and James Grant 