Germany is making plans to end all coal power generation by 2038. On the one hand, it is admirable to limit the burning of coal to cut pollution. The trendy topic is climate change, but it is simpler than that: burning coal makes the air dirty. No one wants to burn coal. However, such a bold move away from coal is geopolitically reckless for a country that has no other domestic carbon-based energy sources and refuses to use more nuclear power.  In 2016, the burning of coal contributed over 42% of the power generated in Germany , according to the International Energy Agency. (All power generation numbers in this column are via the IEA). In 2000, coal power was responsible for almost 53% of the electricity created in Germany. In that same 17-year period, Germany saw a massive boom in its renewable energies. Wind and solar photovoltaic grew from a combined 1.63% of power generation to 18.03%. Biofuels went from less than 0.5% to almost 7%. By all reasonable analysis, coal’s place in German power generation should have decreased by more than the 10.5% it did. What happened? At the same time as Germany was committing to renewables, it was also scaling down its nuclear power generation. In 2000, nuclear accounted for more than 29% of electricity generation in Germany, and by 2016 it contributed just over 13%. After the Fukushima nuclear disaster in Japan, Germany decided to phase out its nuclear plants even though nuclear power avoids pollution and is safe. (The Fukushima disaster was the result of a tsunami caused by a powerful earthquake, two issues that are not common in Germany).    Now Germany plans to phase out coal after it already decided to phase out nuclear. Oil, which is also a dirty and an environmentally unfriendly power generator, has not been a common source of power in Germany for many years. That leaves Germany with the plethora of renewables and natural gas to power its country and its economy, the fourth largest in the world. Germany has made huge strides in using renewables over the last two decades. However, the technology is not available to make them efficient enough to replace coal. Solar power cuts pollution, but the sun does not shine at night. Until engineers someday build efficient batteries to store massive amounts of electricity, solar technology can only be one tool among many used to generate power. Wind also cuts pollution, and Germany produced almost 79,000 GWh of electricity with wind in 2016. However, Germany cannot blanket its entire countryside, cities and coastline with wind turbines. They’re loud, distracting and a hazard to birds. At some point, Germany will be saturated with wind turbines, and it will need another source of power. The most logical source of power for Germany will be natural gas. Gas was already responsible for almost 13% of power generated in Germany in 2016, and the country will have to rely on natural gas more in the coming years if it cuts coal usage. Natural gas does pollute less than coal, but it is still a hydrocarbon fuel and still pollutes. Even worse for Germany, natural gas is sourced outside of Germany. Coal is the most plentiful hydrocarbon fuel reliably sourced on the European continent. Germany’s best sources for natural gas are Russia and the Middle East.  This decision to phase out coal power plants will hamper German geopolitical independence . Germany is already highly dependent on Russia for fuel. It imported 3.5 billion cubic meters of natural gas from Russia in the first half of 2018. A new offshore pipeline between Russia and Germany, called Nord Stream 2, is expected to be completed later this year. This may be particularly concerning because of the whispered theories concerning former German chancellor Gerhard Schroder and his recent positions of power at Russian energy giants Gazprom and Rosneft . Turkey is trying to increase its own role as a natural gas exporter to Europe, buffeted by its position as a central crossroads for pipelines and maritime activity. If Germany continues with its plans to end coal usage, it could find itself beholden to Russia and Turkey even though Germany is actually much more prosperous. There is the option to diversify its natural gas supplies through the purchase of liquefied natural gas from Qatar, the U.S. or even Australia. The U.S. obviously wants customers for American natural gas (if it can manage to build more liquefaction plants) but geopolitically also seeks to minimize Russia’s influence over European energy supplies. As Germany seeks to phase out coal burning power plants, it should be careful not to put its energy security entirely in the hands of Russia and Turkish interests. 