Venezuela’s Socialists United Party, known as PSUV, could not have predicted it any better. In fact, everything that is going down in Venezuela today—and surely will when they are no longer in power—comprises the political outcomes PSUV has fought against forever. The Yankees are coming. One way or the other, they are coming. Wait for it. Here is the alarm bell, Caracas: the second someone in Washington mentions PSUV and the FARC in the same sentence, Nicolas Maduro is one day closer to becoming the next Manuel Noriega. Over the weekend, the European Union went one step ahead of the United States and called for early elections, as in within eight days. The Maduro administration rejected the idea but said they were willing to talk to the opposition parties in the Congress. This isn’t the first time Maduro said he would seek reconciliation with non-PSUV parties in the National Assembly. The Vatican was talking with him about this as recently as 2016, but that went nowhere. Instead, he stripped the Congress of its powers to create the Constituent Assembly of PSUV party hacks. For Maduro, Europeans telling his country that they don’t recognize its leader is like Spanish galleons landing on Margarita Island and telling the indigenous that they’ve come from afar to boss them around ... and take all their land. Russia supposedly sent private military contractors to protect Maduro from a coup. Moscow did the same in Syria, even though the stories are quite different. Also on Saturday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told the world to pick a side: it’s us or Maduro. Pompeo has not yet made the connection of PSUV to the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, but that day is coming. The U.S. has already said that people inside PSUV, including former vice president Tareck El Aissami, were guilty of either drug running or aiding and abetting in it. Like the FARC, PSUV is a revolutionary movement first. It was created by the late Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez to go after the descendants of the old colonial powers and the beneficiaries of American multinational corporate power, kicking them out, and redistributing their wealth, sort of like buying votes. For some, it was akin to reparations. The FARC never was a political party until recently. Their members disbanded and formed a party in exchange for peace through some semblance of political representation for its leadership. This is likely PSUV’s future. PSUV will be busted up into tiny pieces. They would have been forced to do so by those damn Yankee imperialists they love to hate. How all of this unfolds is fairly simple. I think the best way to look at regime change in Venezuela, something that was sparked from within years before President Trump issued sanctions against parts of the economy, is through Washington’s language. Look for Washington to bring up issues like drug trafficking and even Hezbollah (Iran is an ally of Venezuela). All of this sets in motion overt and perhaps covert support for anyone looking to get rid of Maduro and, ultimately, PSUV. Whether Washington wants to get rid of PSUV to get Venezuela’s oil, or whether they are just responding to the will of the majority in what has always been a friendly country, I don’t know for sure. Maybe it’s a mix of both. Washington recently brought Elliot Abrams back to active duty. For those who don’t know him, Abrams was one of the main men behind Operation Just Cause. That was the U.S.-led operation in 1989 that basically told Noriega he’s fired because of drug trafficking. Panama's economy crumbled. In Venezuela, the absence of PSUV will result in something similar. Venezuelans are nationalistic, so dollarization is unlikely even though most of the middle class and wealthy there already live off the dollar. Worse than Panama, seeing how PSUV has subsidized the economy in order to keep it alive, all of those public support programs will be taken away under new leadership. The International Monetary Fund will come in and require subsidies to things like housing and food be taken away—slow or fast -- and Hugo Chavez, as I like to say, will have died twice. If the IMF does not come in to provide aid, then some other form of aid will be required, either from Treasury or the EU, or both. Russia and China have been funding Venezuela for years, mainly to keep its oil company PdVSA in business. All of this crisis was set up by PSUVs careless management. Their enemies—the Spanish pirate and politician, the gringo American secret agent and his stupid friends at Coca-Cola—will be the only thing that keeps Venezuela afloat. PSUV shot the place full of holes. None of this happened because of ex-president Barack Obama or because of Trump. It happened because oil prices collapsed and PSUV wanted to create a socialist utopia with no money. No one in PSUV is broke. But Venezuelans are very broke. This marks year three of Venezuela’s Great Depression. Chavez’s PSUV stoked Venezuelans’ anger about the past. Anger over colonialism’s impact on the country whipped up the poor who felt like they were robbed, even if it happened multiple generations ago. Their second-class status would be no more. It was one of PSUV’s only accomplishments, thanks to high oil prices. Chavismo also whipped up the intellectual left, the kind who like sinking their teeth in the other side of the story not necessarily for the sake of understanding it, but for the sake of punishing the main actors of the original version. Like Chavez, they politicized history and divided the electorate. Chavez also whipped up anger against the rich. They got their money illegally, which is often true, and that meant poor people weren’t getting their fair share, which is also true. Unlike Maduro, he was charismatic and easier to support. Unlike Maduro, he had a commodity boom on his side. Maduro has no money. His country is in default. The currency is worthless. Lord knows how the Russians and Chinese are being paid. The Russians now own a chunk of Citgo, the PdVSA-owned gasoline station, whose big red triangle lights up the landscape behind Boston’s famous Fenway Park. For PSUV, the only way to stay in power is to demand it. This is not much different than Washington's “my way or the highway” foreign policy. At what point do societies and the political parties that lead them go from anger to disbelief to acceptance and finally to just moving on? PSUV never went through the stages of grief. It is in perpetual anger, not to mention blame and fear. PSUV is about to get stuck in disbelief as everything they once rallied against comes to pass. PSUV and Maduro might be able to save themselves, however. If Maduro calls for early elections, including perhaps putting himself on the ballot (he’ll lose), then all ends well. (But the IMF still comes to town.) Venezuelans can fix this leadership problem themselves, now that they have some powerful cheerleaders throughout the Americas—including most of its South American neighbors. It will take a long time. There are lots of moving parts, and lots of sworn allegiances, including to foreign governments like Cuba. The political parties distrust each other, and the trust between PSUV and the opposition is almost nonexistent. The alternative though is further isolation, a dictatorship digging in its heels and the prolonging of what looks like the inevitable end of 20-years of PSUV rule. 