About three years ago, oil dropped to just $30 per barrel while the industry sat in the midst of a slump that showed no signs of ending. The downswing did more than just tighten the purse strings and clear out those producers not equipped to weather the storm. It highlighted the operational inefficiencies of the oil and gas sector more than ever before. It underscored that firms had been throwing manpower at problems that technology could solve. It forced them to do more with less and explore new methods to modernize the antiquated processes that still existed on their oilfields. History may remember this recent downswing as the trigger that finally moved the oil and gas sector into the mobile, cloud-based, internet-of-things era. As super and major oil and gas companies vie for swing-producer status, there can be no stone left unturned to weather future price declines and to command the sparest capacity. Today, Things Are Looking A Lot Brighter As of Jan. 24, the price of oil is over $50 per barrel, and companies that survived the turbulent years are breathing a little easier. Now is not the time to rest, however. It is the time to act on the lessons learned and streamline organizations with the use of modern technology revolutionizing every other industry. If supers and majors hope to grow profitably and have a defining impact on the market, they must start by addressing the stark production inefficiencies that exist in their field operations. Growth can no longer end up adding linear cost curve. Master The Last Mile In Production Efficiencies Drilling technologies have undoubtedly given a quantifiable advantage in production, especially to U.S. shale operators. However, these advancements have not made their way to the last mile -- the day-to-day production operations of an oilfield. For oil and gas companies to truly master that last mile in field production operations, they must leverage disruptive technology all the way. Here's how to liberate the field crew from the back office-centric ERP technologies not built with the field in mind: 1. Make Current Field Automation Meaningful The torrential downpour of big data must be culled, prioritized and fed in ways that become exponentially easy for a field crew to act upon without requiring tribal knowledge. Often, oilfields are dotted with multiple supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) sensors. Companies like Siemens and Emerson, take center stage in building and installing SCADA systems. But as thousands of incomprehensible alarms go off every day, the oilfields are just left to make sense of them. This creates more chaos than cohesion and requires a level of tribal knowledge to know which alarms to pay attention to. But facilitated by internet of things (IoT) sensors, well health can now be integrated into intuitive and crew-friendly mobile apps that factor in business priorities, monitor with practical embedded functionalities, raise crucial alerts and flag exceptions. 2. Create A Closed-Loop Communication System Between The Field And Office Field crews, especially lease operators, currently spend more time responding to back-office requests than actually pumping oil. Make that communication automatic and simple. The analog age of the back-and-forth style of communication must go. Every interruption drains valuable production time for the field crew. The field cannot remain the one choke point for all information that needs to be fed back to different departments like the control room, production accounting, maintenance and more. Lease operators spend vast amounts of time entering data. That does not even take into account responding to calls from back-office personnel asking for data. By using machine learning-based image recognition, for example, printed or handwritten notes can be deciphered and fed accurately to the back office without the need for manual validation. For example, check scanners have made financial transactions faster in banks by using a card-scanning function to easily authenticate front- and back-office processes. Similarly, the image recognition for run tickets automates the processes. 3. Cut Down The Need For Fixed Routes For that to happen, we must make it easier for any crew member to become a super lease operator -- someone who can easily assess the situation, prioritize the most high-producing problems to solve and do the job of seven crew members. Over time, the platform learns and recommends the best routes and highest priority tasks to create efficiencies. By liberating this tribal knowledge, it is possible to codify the behavior of super lease operators. When technology learns from actual behavior, it becomes easier for any crew member to become a super lease operator. For instance, every time we leave a rating for the driver we ride with on an Uber, we enrich the engine to understand a better match for the next rider. All the technology in the world can’t beat the real-world experience of a super lease operator. But it can absorb knowledge and behavior such as drive times, excellent performance traits, prioritization behaviors and much more. 4. Get All Your Field Tasks Done In One Place Everything is a task in the eyes of a crew, whether it is measuring a gauge, tending to an oil spill or scoping out a job order. Feed the crew with the most relevant, high-value problems to solve in order of priority. The AI learns from the invaluable experience of lease operators and then utilizes machine learning to create algorithms that, over time, make recommendations for lease operator scheduling and dynamic routing. This means production managers can optimize available resources by prioritizing wells that need more attention. This is exactly how the recommendation engines at work on e-commerce sites pop up just the right purchase option as we surf -- they process what we bought and what we generally buy and are able to understand our preferences based on AI. Today, a field of 1,000 wells often needs 300 personnel. With disruptive technologies helping companies master last mile connectivity, it can be managed by just 50. Pumping by priority is a reality now. Through technology, producers gain the ability to match skill sets to specific problems in the field and let the platform connect the dots. 