Day after Black Monday, I remember Larry Tisch remaining uncharacteristically mum at lunch with a bunch of us bearish operators. We were puzzled by the market plunge, its amplitude and that traders weren’t picking up phones and making markets in 100,000 share blocks. Later on, Larry admitted he was a hungry buyer of equities, day after. Probably, his best junk peddler’s bullish gut play until oil majors like Exxon Mobil were shedding mothballed, even floating supertankers at scrap value. We’re talking here of 700-foot jobs offered for $5 million. Maybe they stretched 1,000 feet. “Can you imagine,” Larry said. “You get all that for $5 million.” Periodically, the market does sell like surplus supertankers, but not for very long. In 1999, the book Dow 36,000 argued the risk premium for equities rested too high. Why any risk premium? Because stocks long term outperform bonds and sport dividends that grow. The authors insanely capitalized future earnings of the S&P 500 Index at 100 times. This was seven times what the index sold for mid-2014. Consider, the Dow Jones Index dropped under 10,000 early in 2001, (a recession) fulsomely volatile. During 2009 it based at 6,649, but by year-end 2014 breached 1,800. We’re at 24,665 today.    Stocks normally run twice as volatile as bonds, so an equity risk premium of zero is foolishly optimistic except when interest rates are minimal and the perception percolates that they rest low enough in years to come. This is my perception, my working hypothesis. I’ve added to an extensive portfolio of BB debentures. (See last week’s column.) Secondly, I’m partial to high-yielding stocks that nobody cares for, like AT&T and General Motors, which 49 analysts disdained when it was selling at six times earnings with a free cash flow yield of 10%. GM printed year-end numbers sky-high relative to the dumb-bunny consensus. It popped 10% overnight and has ticked up 25% from its 12-month low of $30 and change. AT&T, as yet, trades near its 12-month low. Everyone’s afraid of the trend in cable disconnects and an overturn possibility of the Time Warner acquisition. This deal is crucial for AT&T to attain viability in the entertainment world. There’re Trumpian political overtones. After all, Trump has learned to hate CNN, part of Time Warner. I’m sure the feeling is mutual. Chances are the deal is upheld in the appellate court, a decision coming in the weeks ahead. My AT&T holding is disproportionately huge. If wrong, I’ll be pushing pasta in a Hoboken, New Jersey, joint to make ends meet. I have no tolerance for lazy security analysts who conjure up earnings numbers and put heady valuations on properties. Almost all quarterly earnings projections on internet and e-commerce stocks repeatedly fall wide of the mark as did Apple’s numbers despite field reports of weakening iPhone demand. The issue of Apple overpricing new phone offerings never came up. Apple, today, is one low-price earnings stock I shy away from. Conversely, I sense reaction to Facebook’s operating mufti-pufti has been overdone. Facebook’s franchise ain’t going to crumble to dust. I expect solid operating cash flow numbers coming in its year-end report. This is my focused metric for determining operational viability and wherewithal to grow the business. The stock is saying I could be wrong. My other metric stock is Boeing, which reacted violently when one of its new model 737s crashed in flight. Boeing sells for 10 times next year’s free cash flow. It’s a rare opportunity to buy into a company with a commanding industry position after a foolish mini-panic. After studying year-end bank reports, Citigroup stands out as the value play. Selling at 10 times earnings power with tangible book value at no premium, Citigroup was the best fourth-quarter operator, better than JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo by far. Same goes for Goldman Sachs. Banking now is a cost containment business in a flattish yield curve environment that nobody saw coming—quite the opposite. George Soros understood linkage better than most of us. The consensus, he knew, forever is wrong. It misses pivotal variables in each phase of unfolding financial markets. Then, it congeals into a new consensus once it recognizes rats are multiplying, but fails to understand how the Pied Piper is going to corner all the rats and exterminate them. Think of the past 12 months. What the current consensus fails to see, doesn’t want to anticipate, is that the price-earnings ratio for the market is much too high by historic comparisons. Even in a low-inflation, low-interest-rate setting, the price-earnings ratio rarely sticks above 15 for very long. Because the world’s growth rate runs below average and still is wishy-washy here, in Europe and China. Heady earnings projections seem pie-in-the-sky wish fulfillment. Consensus earnings for the S&P 500 this year is $175 a share. Pundits see the market at 3,000. I’m below $170 with a multiplier of 15 just so long as interest rates and inflation remain contained. With the S&P 500 ticking over 2,600, this level for me is a gift that probably won’t sustain itself. I’m at 2,500, but hope I’m wrong. Maybe 2,250 if earnings weaken. Conversely, I expect BB-rated bonds to earn their coupon and appreciate 3% to 5%. So, put my high-yield bond return at least 800 basis points better than equities. I’ve taken minimal duration risk, too, averaging five years, few exceptions. Now’s time to act out as the tortoise, not the hare. If I’ve got it right, Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, Boeing, Facebook and AT&T appreciate 20% and still look cheap on their numbers, supertankers selling near scrap value. Neither a growth nor a value player, I own what I think are inefficiently priced pieces of paper. Can’t analyze Amazon, so I don’t play. Ironically, Warren Buffett unveiled corporate America’s foolishness about stock splitting down to $50. This was supposed to suck in new investors. Now everyone is concentrated in stocks selling into hundreds, even thousands. I miss the four-buck ragamuffins. Somehow, I can’t see myself going to the moon with Amazon ticking at $1,696. Then there’s Chesapeake Energy, up from two bucks to almost three practically overnight on the rally in oil futures. I do own their debentures, bought at $60 not so long ago. Courage! Courage! You can’t hide out forever in AT&T. Why is it easier to buy the numero uno or dos market cap Amazon at $1,696? It is unanalyzable. The best you can say is Amazon shows sizable operating cash flow and sports a conservative balance sheet. Employees don’t garner a huge amount of stock grants, either, while its forklift-truck jockeys work for peanuts and often indulge in work stoppages. More ironies: The smartest guy in the room, Buffett, owns a ton of Apple, now below his cost. Apple is an analyzable piece of paper. Probably why Warren bought it instead of Amazon. Chesapeake Energy was my failure in execution. Capacity to think abstractly separates men from boys. I shoulda conceptualized the impact from a snapback in Brent oil futures. For certain, this would lift shadows of insolvency hanging over Chesapeake. This two-buck number had to spike. So it did, pulling along the depressed sector of MLPs. Unless you can go against the grain, forget about four-baggers. Sosnoff and / or his managed accounts own: AT&T, Facebook, Boeing, Citigroup, Wells Fargo preferreds, Goldman Sachs and Chesapeake Energy.  msosnoff@gmail.com  