Venezuela has been slowly imploding for years, so it should not surprise that oil markets have largely brushed off the presidential standoff that emerged this past week in the OPEC-member country. The United States and several Latin American countries this week recognized Venezuelan National Assembly President Juan Guaido as the country’s president over Nicolas Maduro, but Maduro shows no signs of ceding power. Maduro retains the backing of Venezuela’s military, where ideological belief in the Bolivarian revolution – the cause that Maduro inherited from his predecessor Hugo Chavez – is real. Venezuela’s national oil company, PDVSA, has effectively been turned into an extension of the military in recent years, with oil executives and technocrats booted in favor of generals and colonels. The militarization of PDVSA has been nothing short of gross mismanagement and has contributed to the remarkable decline in Venezuela’s oil production from well over 2 million barrels a day over much of its history to around 1 million barrels a day today. Even before the events of the past week, the declines were expected to continue with some forecasts saying Venezuelan output could end the year as low as 600,000 barrels a day.    Such expectations are already baked into international oil prices, which have not strayed far from the $60-a-barrel level they traded at before the Venezuelan political crisis ratcheted up. While Maduro’s rule now faces its most serious threat, the oil markets appear to be factoring in the very real possibility of a lasting stalemate in Venezuela. The Trump administration could change the calculus by imposing tougher sanctions, including a ban on imports of Venezuelan crude, prohibition of U.S. exports of a petroleum diluent that Venezuela needs to extract its heavy, tar-like crude oil, and financial restrictions that would make it risky for anyone to do business with PDVSA. Such a move would cut off critical sources of hard cash to Maduro and his cronies, accelerate the decline in Venezuela production, and give the United States the best chance of regime change. But hard sanctions come with complications and serious risks for energy markets, particularly for Gulf Coast refiners like Valero and Chevron, who still rely on imports of Venezuela’s sour crude to the tune of 500,000 barrels a day. The bigger problem for global oil markets is a tightening of heavy sour crude supplies – the type of oil that Venezuela sells and that U.S. refiners depend on to make gasoline and other refined products. The combination of sanctions on Iran, falling output in Mexico and cutbacks in Canadian oil exports makes sanctioning Venezuela now extremely disruptive since it would further reduce the availability of heavy sour oil in global oil markets. Heavy oil usually trades at a discount to lighter grades, but the current shortage of what’s also known as sour crude has flipped that equation. And America’s booming shale sector can’t help balance the market because it produces light, sweet crude oil. Any turning of the screws on Venezuela by the Trump administration would also increase costs for U.S. refiners – and American drivers. While President Trump has not taken new sanctions off the table, he needs a plan to mitigate the potential price shock that could occur before he proceeds. His options include releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) or calling on the Canada to suspend its restrictions on heavy crude. Both options have their downsides. Oil from the SPR is mostly light- and medium-grade oil so Gulf Coast refiners would still need to find the heavy crude they depend on elsewhere. Alberta has been holding back as much as 325,000 barrels a day of heavy crude production since the start of this month due to steep regional discounts. Canadian officials might agree to re-open the taps if helps push Maduro toward the exit, but Canada still faces a pipeline bottleneck in transporting its oil south, which is a leading reason why Western Canadian Select is selling at a steep discount in the first place. The Trump administration may have little choice but to let gasoline prices rise if it’s committed to removing Maduro. The only other option may be military action, which could come at a far higher price than a few pennies at the pump. The history of Venezuela’s slow collapse over the past decade shows a country always on the brink but never fully falling apart. It’s dangerous to think the events of the past week will suddenly change that. 