Another day, another headache for the Venezuelan government of Nicolas Maduro. On Tuesday, the Treasury Department delivered on its promise to apply more pressure to anyone associated with the ruling Socialists United Party (PSUV). This time, anyone operating in Venezuela's oil sector is subject to sanctions that include U.S. travel bans and transferring funds through American financial institutions. Treasury has not sanctioned U.S. imports of oil firm PdVSA. The latest comes at a time when Maduro is being billed as the co-star in the ongoing Venezuelan soap opera. National Assembly president Juan Guaido is his unwilling co-star. Guaido is considered the highest-ranking elected official in the country by most democracies, with the U.S., European Union and numerous countries in Latin America recognizing him as president and not Maduro. Maduro finds himself reliving the history of Simon Bolivar, the namesake behind PSUV's Bolivarian revolution that aimed to remake Venezuela for the oppressed at the expense of -- more often than not -- a faceless oppressor.    See: PSUV's Worst Fears Coming True -- Forbes In Venezuela, Socialists United Party's Support Continues To Vanish -- Forbes Treasury's Latest: Sanctions Against PdVSA Staffers, Others -- Forbes In 1989, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, a Nobel Prize-winning Colombian author, wrote “The General in his Labyrinth”, a novel about the fictionalized pathetic last seven months of the life of Simon Bolivar, the liberator of the northern half of South America and the man for him PSUV founder Hugo Chavez based his revolution. Like the Marquez novel's version of Bolivar, Maduro is now facing a complex set of domestic and external challenges which may lead him into a similarly pathetic demise, Ashmore Group's head of research Jan Dehn wrote in a note to clients on Monday. Ashmore is a big PdVSA bond holder. All bonds except for the PdVSA 2020s are in default. "The origin of Maduro’s current predicament is that he was elected illegitimately last year," Dehn says about the May 2018 election. The Supreme Court disqualified all key opposition figures from running against him. The move marked a major departure from Venezuelan norms. Years ago, PSUV was flying high on oil and Hugo Chavez's charisma. Even if the middle class and rich were the sources of his scorn, most Venezuelans would vote for him at the time because the economy was strong. Those days are over. "Unlike the past, a number of large Latin American democracies, including Argentina, Brazil, and Colombia, are today run by right-leaning governments, which would be happy to see Maduro go," Dehn says. Last week, Guaido declared himself president with the support of the Democratic Unity Roundtable, the coalition of opposition parties across the political spectrum that are against PSUV. Guaido was reportedly told by Vice President Mike Pence that if he declared himself interim president, the U.S. would back him diplomatically and reject Maduro. The opposition has also appointed a parallel representative to the Organization of American States, the first international institution to reject Maduro's presidency. Over the weekend, even French president Emmanuel Macron called for early elections as soon as next week. Maduro flat out rejected the idea. "Despite Guaido's gambit, the opposition is still effectively powerless unless the armed forces turn on Maduro and depose him," says Fernando Freijedo, Latin America analyst at The Economist Intelligence Unit. Guaido called on the "military family" to reinstate the "constitution", all the while declaring himself to be non-violent. Meanwhile, Maduro rightfully sees this as a coup from opposing parties, with tacit support from the U.S. government. Maduro might be Venezuela's last dictator. Guaido needs dissatisfied regime members, including greater numbers in the rank-and-file who have been brainwashed for 20 years that anything but PSUV was treason. Whether or not Guaido becomes the president in a post-Maduro Venezuela, the new leader needs promises of aid from abroad, and financing for a new government. "The situation is highly fluid, and Guaido's and the opposition's strategy still wholly depends on an internal fracture of the regime," says Freijedo. Guaido said he would call for more protests in the days ahead. Meanwhile, in Washington, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said PdVSA has long been a vehicle for embezzlement and corruption by officials and businessmen. Hence the new sanctions. For Mnuchin, the latest round of sanctions will prevent the nation's oil revenues from being used for PSUV purposes. He said the sanctions will be lifted when Maduro hands control of PdVSA to a new government. "The path to sanctions relief for PdVSA is through the expeditious transfer of control to the interim president or a subsequent democratically elected government who is committed to taking concrete and meaningful actions to combat corruption," Mnuchin said. Maduro once claimed Hugo Chavez came to him in the form of a bird and told him the crisis would abate. But like the characters in the magical realist tales of Garcia Marquez, none of this is true. And none of what PSUV said it would do to benefit Venezuela has come to pass. The rise in literacy rates and other social measures once touted heavily by Chavistas from American academia, has now be trumped by chaos and economic decline. With over three million Venezuelans migrating over the last two years, the brain drain there alone may take years to recover. Maduro looks increasingly vulnerable both domestically and externally. Like Bolivar, who failed in his grade dream for a Gran Colombia that included Venezuela, he may end up in a country led by those who have despised him. He may even end up in Havana, or exiled in some other PSUV friendly nation, like Bolivia. For investors, the end of PSUV, of course, is good news, says Dehn. Venezuela’s defaulted bond prices are rising in value as the clock ticks on the Socialists United. "Venezuela is bankrupt despite sitting on the largest oil reserves in the world," says Dehn. "A new government would want to increase oil production as quickly as possible."   