Venezuela is officially a dictatorship. The Organization of American States does not recognize Nicolas Maduro as its president. Nor does nearly all of Latin America, with the exception of maybe three governments: Cuba, Bolivia, and Nicaragua. If the ruling Socialists United of Venezuela (PSUV) has nine lives, they’re lived eight of them.  Vice President Mike Pence released a video message on Tuesday in support of the Venezuelan opposition and recent protests in Caracas. He also called Maduro a “dictator,” meaning Washington now views this guy through a 1980s Cold War lens. Everyone except those three aforementioned countries now recognizes National Assembly president Juan Guaidó as the democratically elected leader of the country. He has been leading rallies nationwide in an effort to galvanize public support to oust PSUV from power.    Guaido’s National Assembly is the equivalent of the U.S. Congress. He’s their Nancy Pelosi. Only that body of government was stripped of its powers by PSUV roughly two years ago to form a so-called Constituent Assembly of leftist PSUV yes men and yes women who continue to run Venezuela into the ground. “Against all odds, over the last 10 to 12 days, we’ve seen a growing sense of enthusiasm,” said Dimitris Pantaoulas, a Caracas-based political analyst and consultant was quoted saying in today’s Miami Herald. “Guaido as an opposition leader is relatively new, and you can’t say that his positions are particularly clear ... but he’s become a symbol of hope and energy.” See: Desperate Venezuelans Demand Change — The Miami Herald  A group of rank-and-file members of the National Guard published a video on social media calling for protests. For Maduro and PSUV, this is a coup attempt, and they will see the CIA lurking everywhere. People, by and large, supported the soldiers and rejected Maduro, a leader who has given them six-digit hyperinflation and useless currency. The protests this week were not widespread, however, allowing the military to squash them. However, these events provide further evidence of internal frictions within the armed forces and of the fragility of the PSUV government. There is an increasing possibility of regime change, although who will replace Maduro remains unclear. It could be another member of PSUV, trying to preserve the legacy of the party created by the late Hugo Chavez. Chavez oversaw an economy stoked on oil prices. When oil went from nearly $200 a barrel to $35, Venezuela imploded. The country is going broke. It survives on Russian and Chinese life support. When PSUV is gone, it will undoubtedly fall into the loving arms of the International Monetary Fund. Hugo Chavez would have died twice. There’s been a qualitative change in the anti-government protests. The protests are not being led by some middle-class bourgeoisie with summer homes on Margarita Island and in Miami. It’s happening in the low-income neighborhoods of Caracas where most people survive on government jobs—like those in the security forces—or on some form of social welfare program. The poor are PSUV’s base. They are starting to see the light. “Protests in poor areas not only contradict the government’s narrative but could be more difficult for the government to suppress,” says Alejandro Arreaza, a Latin America economist at Barclays Capital in New York. “The government’s capacity to react is limited.” Meanwhile, serious crackdowns on opposition leaders leading to jail time, or the police busting heads at tomorrow’s scheduled protest, will only embolden Washington against PSUV. So far, Trump has not declared Maduro a dictator or Guaido as the recognized leader of the country. Recent attacks against Guaido do not intimidate him. Those left in the country may start seeing in him someone who can get rid of PSUV, even if they are not particularly fond of Guaido himself. His vocal opposition against Maduro has led to more participation at town halls and other events across the country, which suggests tomorrow’s protest could be the biggest one since the anti-Maduro protests from September 2016 to April 2017. Arreaza says this time is different. In the past, there have been periods of high internal pressure for PSUV’s ouster but low external pressure. Venezuela was basically a nonstory in the foreign political press. Wall Street watched it because PdVSA bonds are a popular trade and always have been. Washington started pressuring the Maduro government in late 2017 and into 2018, but by then protests had died down and millions of Venezuelans had left the country. This time we have both—external pressure and internal pressure against PSUV. It “could make a political transition more likely,” Arreaza says. 