In 2012 Saudi Arabia announced plans to invest US$109 billion in solar power. A third of its electricity would be derived from solar. Oil was averaging more than $90 per barrel and continued to do so into 2014. So, burning less through less at home, just to generate subsidized electricity for locals was a lucrative prospect. More than that, the country wanted to leverage what would have been the world’s largest single investment in solar deployment to export power to Europe. There was effectively zero progress on this. The creation of the Renewable Energy Project Development Office (REPDO) and the opening of the door to foreign investment in these projects offered a new route. By 2030 it wants to install 40GW of solar. The plan is for REPDO to put 30% of this to tender and so far that is going to plan. This week, the country opened proceedings on the second phase of tenders with 1.5GW of opportunities up for grabs. The other 70%, however, raises some questions. Back in 2012 the wheels of bureaucracy turned too slowly. An actionable deployment plan could not be agreed. Commentators have speculated that the best route forward could not be agreed between the Saudi Electricity Company and Saudi Aramco. The prospect of investing the nation’s money in solar no doubt lost some of its shine as oil prices effectively halved in 2014. The other 70% of this new solar target is to be led by the country’s sovereign wealth fund, the Public Investment Fund (PIF). It will negotiate deals with overseas partners directly, rather than through tenders. Projects participating in the those REPDO tenders will have to meet local content requirements. That means buying components and construction services such as cables, grading, fencing and so on, from local partners. Solar panels and inverters, the two costliest components, bought through Saudi distributors will make some contribution to that local content. What Saudi Arabia wants the PIF-led projects to achieve is “fast-track localization” and sufficient manufacturing to permit the “export” of renewable components. At the World Future Energy Summit (WFES) in Abu Dhabi this month more than 100 manufacturers, largely Asian, gathered to show their wares to the rapidly growing Middle East market. As that local content requirement increases, it will become impossible to meet the criteria without using modules and inverters that have at least been assembled in the Kingdom. The Saudi Arabian government signed a “Memorandum of Understanding” with Chinese panel manufacturer LONGi Group at the event. Also speaking at WFES, a competitor privately admitted it was assessing its own manufacturing options. A Saudi-based distributor said it was looking at bringing inverter manufacturing to the Kingdom too. But at the same time as wanting to create a solar supply chain and the jobs that go with it, Saudi Arabia is also going to look to continue procuring solar at the best possible prices. It is already contracted the first REPDO project, the Sakaka plant at a near world record low, but as one PV project developer put it, you can either have the lowest prices or you can have the local content. If the ambitious nation is going to provide the jobs needed for a young and growing population, it may have to bow out of the increasingly competitive claim of providing the world’s cheapest solar power and instead pursue the best value for its entire economy.