Aside from their political sympathies, the foreign countries taking Maduro's side in Venezuela all have their own selfish commercial agenda. Most notably, Russia, Iran, Cuba, Turkey, China. You don't hear much about this angle. Instead there's a great deal of political virtue-signaling: depending on your politics, those countries are either helping Venezuela resist the Yanqui bully or they're part of the worldwide authoritarian cabal. As usual, amid the hubbub of reflexive reportage nobody probes the central issue. What are those foreign powers actually doing there? On the ground.  Whatever positive they claim to be doing, little benefit has accrued to the populace, the economy or the system as a whole. So we can at the very least conclude that they don't excel in managerial skills let alone 'nation building'. The Cubans, for example, have supplied technocratic manpower. Advisers to the military and police, to the ministries in the area of health and civil engineering etc. Who knew they were quite that incompetent? And indeed when you look at the list of the leading pro-Maduro countries, none stand out as exporters of successful governance methods to other places. The US and the West have shouldered that kind of responsibility repeatedly over the decades and, more often than not, succeeded – with some really painful exceptions.  But back to the central issue. Let's probe the activities of, say, three foreign powers lining up against the US in Venezuela and see what we can learn that the mainstream news media fails to tell us. Russia, Iran, Turkey. Each has a particular focus. Russia, oil. Iran, mostly Uranium. Turkey, gold. Think about that wholistically. What do those three have in common and why those products? Start with Moscow. The Russian oil giant Rosneft is very involved with Venezuela's nationalized oil authority having provided large amounts of capital and equipment since the time of Chavez. In short, Moscow (and Beijing) own a massive chunk of Venezuela's prospective oil output and revenue as payment on debt. Here is a very useful brief anatomy from Forbes of Caracas's primary oil relationships – and what happens if the White House imposes sanctions on that oil.  Among other startling revelations from the article, perhaps the chief among them, is the odd fact that Venezuela sells almost half its output to the US. In other words, American money upholds the Chavista regime and has done for many years. I have written in the past about the guarantee that George W. Bush gave Chavez in a confidential message via Jimmy Carter during the Iraq war – that the US would do nothing do destabilize Chavez's rule in Venezuela so long as the oil kept flowing. It makes sense. The US needed uninterrupted supplies at a time when the ongoing Iraq debacle threatened Middle East sources – before lateral drilling and other innovations made the US fully self-sufficient. But it did mean that Chavez got free reign.     So when you hear people berating the US for its destructive interventionism abroad, let them also consider the alternative scenario, namely the consequences of doing nothing i.e. allowing Chavez and Maduro to wreak their malevolence on the populace. Five million refugees. A country, with more oil than any other, teetering on the brink of mass starvation. A possible million percent inflation this year! You read that right.  For some years now, Moscow has tried fiercely to dominate strategic oil markets, not just through its own supplies and delivery networks but equally by acting as bullying broker to the supplies and fuel needs of others. In one form or another, Moscow has dealt itself into Turkmen gas, Kazakh and Iranian and Venezuelan oil, various refineries and strategic pipeline projects across continents, among other maneuvers. With the price of crude so low, you've got to wonder about the Kremlin's calculations. They're out to gain geopolitical leverage no doubt but at what cost? Especially at a time when the world is drifting away from fossil fuels, however gradually. So what are the Ruskis up to?  Oil functions as a currency substitute and a hedge against Western sanctions. So does gold. And uranium. Among its other sins, Venezuela has become a center of alternative banking and money-laundering as well as narco-trafficking in which top members of Maduro's government are complicit, according to officials in Washington. So, that's what those foreign powers are doing in Venezuela. They're operating a shadow global finance center, part of the world's shadow economy that circulates through Panama, Cyprus, certain Lebanese and Russian and Syrian banks, through London real estate, major artworks and the like. Moscow and its oligarchs survive off that shadow economy. Without it their power would quickly crumble.  Turkey's President recently visited Caracas and was among the first to congratulate Maduro on his extremely dubious election win. What's that all about? Turkey now owns major stakes in Venezuelan goldmines and ships the mined ore to Turkey for refining. The reader might recall that the Taliban finances much of its armed struggle through the Islamic system of transfer (hawala) using gold jewelry. Gold is the perfect hedge against sanctions, being a form of ecumenical stateless currency. Erdogan has already endured one bout of U.S. sanctions for imprisoning the American evangelist, Andrew Brunson. He is preparing his regime and entourage for any further such showdowns with Washington by investing in alternatives to the dollar  Such regimes have a lot more interest in Venezuela than helping Maduro resist Yankee imperialism, and more, even, than recouping their investments in various commodities. At stake, ultimately, is access to the kind of global dark money system that, via corrupt political parties, fixed elections and media monopolies, keeps their own power afloat at home.  