It is virtually now impossible to stop construction of the Nord Stream II gas pipeline, Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki admitted recently. The pipeline would concentrate almost all Russian exports to the EU into one route, doubling the amount of gas transported from Russia to Germany. The cost of the 746-mile pipeline has been estimated at €9.5 billion ($10.3 billion). Two German companies, BASF subsidiary Wintershall and Uniper, are set to provide €950 million each to co-finance the project, although the bulk of the financing would be taken on by Gazprom, which would also supply the gas. The project is expected to be completed at the end of this year. The anti-coalition The pipeline has polarized debate in the EU, between the bloc and the U.S., and added to ambiguous EU-Russian relations. It is opposed by Poland, Ukraine and the Baltic States on the grounds it would increase Europe's dependence on Russian gas. Poland's ex-foreign minister, Witold Waszczykowski, suggested in 2017 that the pipeline was another way for Berlin to punish his country over its alleged reluctance to change course over domestic judicial reforms that Brussels deems anti-democratic. This week Poland's Minister of Foreign Affairs Jacek Czaputowicz reiterated that the pipeline would deprive Ukraine of protection against aggression from Russia. He said that Poland's position on the construction of the pipeline coincided with that of the European Commission, which states that the Gas Directive on the extension of the application of its requirements to subsea pipelines should apply to all pipelines. Morawiecki's words appear now to put that argument to bed. In October, Poland’s state-run gas firm PGNiG signed a 20-year deal for liquefied natural gas (LNG) deliveries from the U.S. and a €200 million ($229 million) plan to buy into a long-term project to deliver gas from Norway. At the same time, Warsaw announced it would not extend its 22-year gas deal with Russian gas firm Gazprom in 2022. Poland is the seventh-largest gas consumer in the EU, using around 17 billion cubic meters (bcm) of gas a year (about 20-25 percent of Germany's consumption). It imports over half of that from Gazprom. Gas demand within Poland is set to rise as coal-driven electricity is replaced by gas-driven plants and Warsaw plans to make Poland a gas hub for the Central and Eastern Europe region and maybe also Ukraine. U.S. gets involved Washington recently threatened to introduce sanctions against European energy companies participating in the project and said it could carry "reputational costs" for those involved. The pipeline is a joint venture between Russian gas giant Gazprom and several Western European energy firms, including Uniper, Wintershall, Engie, OMV and Royal Dutch Shell. By imposing secondary sanctions on smaller European companies involved in the pipeline from Russia, the U.S. could undermine the project, US ambassador to Germany Richard Grenell told the German newspaper Handelsblatt. The U.S. could use extraterritorial sanctions – that is, secondary sanctions that do not directly target an unfriendly nation but which are aimed at other countries that are friendly with the unfriendly nation. The U.S. has already used them in the case of Iran, targeting non-American companies which have dealings with Tehran German interests Sources in the German government reportedly believe that if extraterritorial sanctions did happen the U.S. would target smaller, specialist firms involved in the pipeline’s construction, such as the Allseas Group, responsible for laying sections of pipeline, and the Italian engineering firm Saipem. German Energy Minister Peter Altmaier responded to Washington’s statement by saying it would not be easy to intimidate Germany on this issue, adding that the venture's critics were targeting "the wrong whipping boy." The project was one of most controversial projects of Germany's grand coalition of Christian Democrats (CDU) and Social Democrats (SPD), which ended after four years in September 2017 and was recreated last March. The project was driven by Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel (SPD), and ex-Chancellor Gerhard Schröder (also of the SPD) is the CEO of Nord Stream II. In Germany, senior politicians from the CDU, FDP and Greens have also said they want Berlin to rethink the pipeline. 