Saudi Arabia is looking to invest in U.S. natural gas. The Kingdom is considering Tellurian's proposed Driftwood LNG export terminal in Louisiana and Sempra Energy's Port Arthur LNG facility in Texas. For example, Tellurian seeks equity partners who would buy stakes in Driftwood and receive LNG that they could use themselves or resell at a markup. And why wouldn't oil titan Saudi Arabia be interested in U.S. LNG? Really just starting exports in February 2016, the U.S. will become the third largest LNG exporter this year, after Qatar and Australia. We have recently set records with over 5 Bcf/d of LNG feedgas demand, and we could become become the number one exporter within five years. The potential for U.S. LNG exports is simply staggering. As of December, FERC has 70 outstanding LNG export terminal applications awaiting review, potentially having a mind blowing 55 Bcf/d of export capacity (note: the global LNG market is only 40-43 Bcf/d, so obviously not all of this will come online). Further, the Saudis are looking to acquire U.S. natural gas assets, ready to spend "billions of dollars" here. This is all part of the Kingdom's grand strategy for $150 billion of investment in gas over the next decade. Thanks to the shale revolution, U.S. gas production has surged 50% since 2008 to over 87 Bcf/d, with output up nearly 15% last year alone. Surpassing 100 Bcf/d within four or five years will be pretty easy. And natural gas, of course, is becoming the world's go-to fuel to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and backup intermittent wind and solar. Politically, Saudi Arabia must compensate for the geopolitical friction caused by the assassination of The Washington Post journalist and Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi. Investment in U.S. gas helps diversify the Saudi economy and allow for a reduction in domestic subsidies. In addition, U.S. LNG investment will allow the Saudis to compete with its geopolitical rival, Qatar, which now has plans itself to invest over $20 billion in U.S. LNG. If the Saudis can get access to enough U.S. gas, it would help them to reduce an unwise over reliance on oil-based electricity. More gas helps free up for exports some of the ~725,000 b/d of crude oil used in the summer to generate power. Oil generates over 40% of Saudi Arabia's electricity, way higher than the 3% global average (gas supplies ~60% of Saudi Arabia's power). In fact, Saudi Arabia accounts for almost 20% of all the world's electricity that is generated using oil. With the western developed OECD nations drastically slashing their oil-based power since the oil shocks of the 1970s, oil today is a designed transportation, not power, fuel. For U.S. companies, Saudi Arabia, a rich and well respected global energy player, is an attractive partner As its national oil and gas company, "Aramco is world's most profitable oil company: Bloomberg." Beyond just the U.S., however, Saudi Arabia is sure to turn inward for more gas supply. BP reports that Saudi Arabia has a whopping 285 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of proven natural gas, not much less than the 310 Tcf that the U.S. has. Saudi Arabia exemplifies how many people probably don't realize that the Middle East really is an oil AND natural gas giant. The gas version of OPEC is a group called the Gas Exporting Countries Forum (GECF), holding many of the same OPEC members in addition to Russia. Interestingly enough, Saudi Arabia is not part of the bloc. I'd argue that, especially as gas demand globally continues to rise 2-3% per year, the existence of the GECF is another reason why Americans must support U.S. LNG exports. The reality is that natural gas is not limited just as a bridge fuel but is surely a destination fuel. "Global gas supply grew at decade high in 2018." We simply cannot hand the quickly globalizing (via LNG) gas market to more risky exporters that often have political goals that are contrary to ours (to put it politely). Case in point: already responsible for almost 25% of the world's gas exports, "Russia Looks To Build ‘LNG Island’ To Supply Booming Asian Market." Finally, however, the graphic below shows why we are ultimately forced to question data that come from OPEC and Russia, in regards to how much oil and gas they 1) control, 2) produce, and 3) consume. Although BP reports it, this data are not independently verified - "state secret information." In Saudi Arabia, gas demand and gas production are reported as being an exact match every single year. As somebody that has tracked world energy statistics for a living for nearly 15 years, I find this highly questionable. It is more likely just another example of how OPEC and Russia like to create an opaqueness surrounding how much oil and gas they 1) control, 2) produce, and 3) consume. Such lack of clarity gives them more global prowess, with others forced to take them at their word. In other words, shock alert: there is a bit of purposeful confusion going on among key global energy sellers: "Does OPEC Really Have the Oil That It Claims?" 