The Fed has apparently come to the rescue of the stock market. The final quarter of 2018 was a mess for many global markets. For example, the S&P 500 and peak-to-trough declines of around 20%. That's a relatively large move over a short period. One of the reasons the markets have rebounded into January is because the Fed has apparently changed course. Yet, how significant is this shift, and what prompted it? Then and now Looking back to materials from the Fed's September 2018 meeting before the markets started to unravel. Policy makers expected rates to end this year, 2019, at between 2% and just over 3.5%. That's a pretty broad range, suggesting differing views among policy makers. Most policy makers saw rates ending 2019 around 3% to 3.25%. Certainly meaningfully up from current levels. More recently, the same numbers from the December 2018 meeting were shared. Now the range of outcomes was tighter between 2.25% and 3.25% and most policy makers had rates under 3% by the end of this year. So clearly expectations for rate hikes have reduced quite a bit.    The net of all that is the Fed has shifted from the potential for around 4 hikes, as we saw in 2018 down to 2 in 2019 at most. Rates are still likely to go up, but at a slower pace in the Fed's view. In their own words, the Fed will "be patient". The markets like that. Rising rates can slow growth as the cost of new projects rises, causing less of them to be started. It also raises the cost of consumers borrowing to fund a new car or other major purchase. In addition, higher rates create more competition for money that would go into the stock market. With rates at, say, 1% stocks may offer a much better return, but if rates are at, say, 5% then maybe edging more money into bonds with their virtually guaranteed return makes sense. What the market thinks - cuts not hikes The bond markets are perhaps now more pessimistic than the Fed's policy makers. They see no change coming for rates in 2019. This too is quite a shift from the second half of last year. The markets view rate increases in 2019 as unlikely, which isn't inconsistent with the Fed depending on how the data plays out. Yet, unlike the Fed, the markets are starting to forecast rate cuts as a real possibility. The markets see a 1 in 5 chance of rates getting cut before the end of the year. So there's a disconnect between policy makers and the markets currently. While the Fed is talking about patience in raising rates and still has a broad sense of optimism for the economy, the bond market appears to a decent chance that rates get cut. No Fed policy-makers viewed a cut in rates as likely in their recent forecasts. Their focus is mostly on the path for higher rates. Inflation tamed for now Another key sentence in the Fed's January statement, is that they view inflation as "muted". With the oil price having fallen sharply in the second half of 2018, inflation has reduced, with prices actually declining in December. Interestingly, core inflation hasn't changed all that much and remains a touch over 2%. Still, the Fed has signaled that it's less anxious about prices than previously. That helps keeps rates subdued as the two things the Fed is accountable for are jobs and prices. They aim to keep jobs plentiful and the prices under control. Given that the job market is currently robust, the Fed was keeping a keen eye on inflation, to make sure prices didn't get out of control. They were starting to get worried about prices rising too sharply, based on recent data, they are less concerned. Rather than the pronouncements of President Trump, or potentially more dovish policy-makers such as Esther George joining the committee in 2019, it seems reduced fear of inflation has perhaps driven the shift in Fed policy making. What hasn't changed Despite all this movement, the yield curve remains very flat, currently between 1 and 5 years out the yield curve is inverted, which can really matter and perhaps has more importance for investors than the Fed's complex pronouncements. However, the major inversion signal when the 10-year bond yield falls below shorter term rates, has not happened yet. Also, the shift in policy isn't too dramatic, the Fed's talk of patience suggests they may be slower in rising rates, but not necessarily that rises will stop. It appears that we'll see fewer hikes on the cards in 2019, but higher rates still seem likely in the Fed's view. Currently, the futures markets are taking a more pessimistic view. Whether or not the yield curve fully inverts in the coming months may signal who wins the argument. If we do see falling rates, then investors may be please to see the return of the Fed bump. 