Kinder Morgan KMI +0% Roughly three months ago, we highlighted Kinder’s strong third quarter results as hopeful tidings for US midstream, as well as mounting evidence of the company’s gathering strength. Both messages have now been reinforced by another round of powerful numbers and guidance. The headline number is a 7 percent lift in Kinder’s fourth quarter 2018 distributable cash flow, funding all capital spending with room to spare. Coupled with proceeds from asset sales, rising DCF has cut $8 billion in debt the past three years, reducing it to just 4.5 times EBITDA and earning the company credit rating boosts from both S&P and Moody’s. Management also affirmed its intent to raise the quarterly dividend from 20 to 25 cents per share beginning in April. That’s while self-funding a planned $3.1 billion in growth capital spending. The key to 2018’s strong results is growth at natural gas pipelines. These operations benefited from increased volumes of associated gas from the Permian Basin, higher output from the DJ Basin of Colorado and recovering activity in the Eagle Ford, as well as recent capital spending on asset expansion. Fourth quarter gas transport volumes overall surged 15 percent from year earlier levels. And the company continues to forecast robust growth on its system, which transports roughly 40 percent of US gas. That includes a 32 percent boost in exports to Mexico, 15 percent higher demand for gas-fired electricity and a five-fold lift in LNG exports by 2030. The startup of the first of 10 units at the Elba Island LNG export facility will lift earnings by the end of the first quarter. Kinder also reported solid results at its Refined Products Pipelines (16.3 percent of EBDA), Terminals (15.5 percent) and the commodity price-sensitive CO2 business (11.1 percent). Kinder Morgan Canada’s contribution is now minimal after the sale of the TransMountain Pipeline system to the Canadian government. During the guidance call, management promised results of the ongoing strategic review of Canadian operations by the next earnings call, with a "strategic combination or sale" possible. Kinder later denied rumors it’s seeking the sale of its frequently volatile CO2 division, which produces and sells oil and natural gas liquids in addition to CO2 for other oil and gas producers. We see two big takeaways from Kinder’s numbers and guidance. First, both were decidedly better than expected. And results were solid up and down the line, despite headwinds such as soft NGLs pricing in some regions. Second, the income and growth-oriented investors who should be flocking to this stock are still staying away. Kinder shares are up more than 20 percent from their late December low point, when they once again briefly cut under our "Dream Buy" price of 15. But even with dividends, they’re still slightly underwater for the past 12 months. Based on the dividend to be declared in April, Kinder now yields north of 5.6 percent, with another 25 percent payout boost promised for 2020. And the company will achieve that growth without having to access the capital market at all. Analysts have taken notice of the big picture: 19 research houses covered by Bloomberg rate the stock buy, versus two holds and one sell. So have insiders, who continue to add to the more than 14 percent of shares they already control. So what’s holding the stock back? We’d bet dollars for dimes that it’s the memory of November 2014, when management hit its longest-term shareholders with a big tax bill by rolling up its MLP units in the US midstream industry’s first major "simplification" merger. That was followed by a 75 percent dividend cut a year later, at the end of a sharp 75 percent top-to-bottom decline in the price of KMI shares. In retrospect, both the merger and dividend cut were needed for the company to emerge from energy’s cyclical crash as a dominant industry player with a healthy balance sheet. But it’s also perfectly understandable that many investors have sworn off the shares in the determination not to be "Kindered" again. Unfortunately, that sentiment will probably prevent the worst hit investors from riding the eventual recovery in this stock. Notably, their number won’t include CEO Richard Kinder, who whatever his faults continued to load up on company stock during the dark times. Equally, that same sentiment is likely to keep investors away from other battered US energy midstream companies. That’s despite clear proof of recovery in the strong earnings numbers and management guidance we’re going to see over the next several weeks. Sector blue chip Enterprise Products Partners (EPD), for example, has increased its distribution every quarter since oil prices started declining in mid-2014. Its shares, however, remain nearly 30 percent below where they were June 30, 2014. Magellan Midstream Partners (MMP) is lower by -25 percent, despite raising its quarterly payout by 63 percent over that time. I’ve no doubt Enterprise and Magellan will lay out robust fourth quarter results and guidance when they report January 31. Enterprise’s analyst support is even stronger than Kinder’s at 23 buys versus one hold and no sells. And Magellan insiders have added more than 8 percent to their holdings over the past six months. Perhaps this set of results will be the one that breathes new life into these long-depressed shares. More likely, all three midstream leaders will keep grinding out their gains by proving each quarter that the cycle has turned positive, and that they’re going to lead the next leg up. The bottom line: If you still haven’t taken positions in these stocks, don’t wait too long. Great companies don’t stay cheap forever.