The Deloitte Football Money League standings were announced today, the annual financial rundown of the biggest football clubs in the world. It has been running since the late 1990s - this is the 22nd edition - and is regularly greeted with fanfare in the media and debate on social media regarding the veracity, importance and merits of its rankings. Football fans love a needless social media debate, which the Deloitte Football Money League manages to provide with aplomb. But behind the bluster, what do the numbers actually mean? Ostensibly, the figures are merely a reflection of a hierarchy among football clubs that everyone basically already knows exists. It shouldn’t come as any surprise to anyone with a passing knowledge of football that some clubs are incredibly rich, but the different orderings of the chairs at the top table, and how certain clubs came to be there, can reveal a lot about the inner financial workings of the beautiful game. The actual rankings matter little, though, for the record, Real Madrid overtook Manchester United at the top of the list, with Barcelona also leapfrogging them into second place. Bayern Munich came below United in 4th, followed by Manchester City, then Paris Saint Germain, then the London trio of Arsenal, Chelsea and Tottenham. The English top 6 maintain their stranglehold on the top of the list, while Italian teams drop down the ranking, without a representative on the top 10 for the first time. Indeed, perennial giants AC Milan find themselves below Everton in 18th place, ahead of two other English teams, West Ham United and Newcastle United, both of whom have experienced relegation in recent years. Such is the financial power of the Premier League. In fact, while the majority of the attention will be focussed at the top of the Deloitte Football Money League, the broader trends that affect standings lower down it are far more interesting. The impact of the latest Premier League TV deal - worth close to £94m minimum per club - has rocketed EPL teams up the list, while participation in Champions League football further ensures a high placement. The scale of money flowing into the league has seen Brighton - in the league for just two seasons - enter the top 30 richest clubs in the world. Obviously, this polarisation of wealth in football has seen those not favored by TV revenue windfalls drop down the list, with some great names of the game now mere afterthoughts. Zenit St Petersburg (25), Besiktas (26) and Benfica (30) are the only non-Big 5 league clubs who make the top thirty, which in itself is a minor miracle. Zenit are propped up by petrodollars from Russian oil company Gazprom, which explains their continuing wealth. Benfica have managed to make themselves arguably the best-run club in Europe, appearing the Champions League nine years consecutively - banking almost £30m minimum per appearance - and selling players worth well over €150m in the last three years, with the likes of Ederson, Viktor Lindelöf, Nelson Semedo, Renato Sanches and Goncalo Guedes all departing for more than €30m in the last three seasons. Besiktas are a slightly more peculiar case: they have won two of the last three Turkish titles and advanced from the Group Stages of the Champions League in the last two seasons, but have generated minimal transfer revenues, at least comparatively with other clubs in Europe’s peripheral leagues - though Turkey does have the largest TV deal outside of Europe’s big 5. Even further down from the top 30, we can see just how much the Premier League TV money has blown away previously huge clubs. Celtic, for example, make the top 50 - Deloitte are still finalizing the lower placings - but can boast the 9th highest average attendance in Europe, as well as a matchday revenue that comes in the top 20. Brighton, for example, derive just 13% of their income from people actually attending matches. Scotland’s TV deal, however, provides Celtic with just a sixth of the revenue that Brighton get from theirs. The third big question, perhaps, is just how long the Deloitte Football Money League can continue to be distorted by the Premier League. Simple economics would suggest that there is a finite amount of subscriber eyeballs that can watch English football, a finite amount of people willing to advertise to those eyeballs and with commensurately a finite amount of money willing to be paid for that privilege. When that event horizon is reached, it stands to reason that the business model of the majority of the Premier League will collapse. While there is a small trend towards viewers turning off - or at least, working out how to watch games without paying - there seems little chance that such a point will be reached soon. The ability of the Premier League to attract viewers beyond Europe, cornering previously virgin markets in Asia and North America, suggests that that finite number is still a long way off. Sam Boor, speaking for Deloitte on the launch of the 2019 Football Money League, acknowledged that this explosion of TV revenue seems unlikely to be sustainable. The Premier League, he said, ‘will be unable to rely on explosive growth in broadcast distributions as a source of future growth, as has been the case in recent years’. This puts ‘an even greater emphasis among these clubs on generating their own growth in the coming season, and in particular the optimization of commercial revenue, which has been a key area for differentiating growth across most of Europe’s leading clubs in recent years’. With half the league already in the Deloitte Top 30, it seems like that day might be a few years off yet.