What happens next in Venezuela's political drama could have a profound impact on oil prices. Venezuela's mess has been a long time coming. The country, which is blighted by hyperinflation, has seen its GDP shrink each year back to 2014, and its oil production has almost halved. The blame squarely rests with awful economic policies pursued by the country's socialist government, currently led by the country's President Nicolas Maduro. However, now we may be entering an endgame that could lead to regime change and in turn a possible shift in the global oil market. Venezuela has the world's largest oil reserves and was once one of the top global producers of the stuff. Restoration of its oil output to historical levels likely would move crude prices down across the planet.    Earlier this month Venezuela's opposition leader Juan Guaido stepped into the role of self-appointed interim president of the country, a move that was quickly recognized by the U.S government. However, Maduro isn't bowing out gracefully. That's led the U.S. to impose sanctions on Maduro's regime, while at the same time urging America's allies to recognize Guaido as the legitimate head of state. Friday the U.S. Treasury made the following statement: The idea is to cut off Maduro's cash and hence drive a wedge between him and the country's military. "The is no other way to read this Treasury Department statement than a defacto ban of oil revenue to the Maduro regime." states a recent report by Joe McMonigle, energy policy analyst at risk management firm Hedgeye. "[...] for now the message is: don't do business with Maduro, instead do business with Guaido." Before the current sanctions, around 400,000 barrels a day of Venezuela's crude output got sold to the U.S. for cash, explains McMonigle. A further 700,000 is sent to Russia and China as a barter payment for debts, he says. "Therefore the US is the ATM machine for the Maduro regime," McMonigle writes. That was until the sanctions which have now shut down that cash flow. The Bank of England has also cut off an attempted withdrawal by Maduro of $1.2 billion worth of gold bullion held in the UK, according to a report from CNN. In other words, Maduro is being isolated. The intent should be clear. The U.S. wants Maduro out and Guaido in. So what? Part of the story is that the U.S. also wants to see the end to the economic malaise in Venezuela. The word "bad" doesn't even begin to describe the situation in the country. Hobbled by hyperinflation and poor policy decisions the economy has contracted every year since 2014. Inflation hit an annualized rate of 112,628% on January 28, according to estimates by Steve Hanke, hyperinflation expert, and professor of applied economics at Johns Hopkins University. The economy shrank by a staggering 16.6% in 2017, which came on the back of a 16.5% fall the year before, according to data collated by Trading Economics. Last year, 2018, is expected to be similarly awful with an initial estimate of minus 15%. Over the same period, Venezuelan oil production got blighted, almost halving over the past few years. In December the country pumped 1.5 million barrels a day in December, down from close to three million in early 2014, according to Trading Economics. That decline in production has allowed other oil-rich countries to keep pumping oil without dramatically depressing prices for crude. Oil prices are determined globally. That means that fluctuations in the supply of energy anywhere on the globe have the potential to push prices down. Increased supply tends to lower prices, and it works vice versa. With a new leader in place, and more importantly, Maduro and his cronies out, the country stands some chance of getting back on its feet. The hyperinflation could be solved by adopting the U.S. dollar as the country's currency, something which Maduro has been dead set against. And with Maduro gone sanctions would likely be eased. Oil production boost? Both those changes would help the oil business. One of the things that Venezuela's state-owned oil firm PDVSA lacks is oil-extraction equipment such as tubing or drill bits. The act of extracting oil quickly corrodes the equipment which then needs to be replaced. Unfortunately for PDVSA, previous U.S. sanctions reduced access to such material and hence oil production dropped. A post-Maduro sanctions-lifting could allow access to the required items and adopting the greenback could also help induce foreigners to invest in the country. However, don't expect anything overnight. Another wrinkle in the story is that it is not entirely clear whether the self-appointed interim president, Guaido, will want to pursue free-market reforms in Venezuela. For longer-term stability in the country, such a change will be necessary, but there is a risk that it may not happen. "[...] the opposition has no credible economic game plan," states Steve Hanke in a recent tweet. With that in mind, Venezuelans need to hope that Guaido takes the "interim" part of his role seriously.   