How to beat the stock market in 2019? The Majors will take on board the success most had in 2018 when the peer group outperformed an oil and gas sector beset by collapsing oil prices late in the year. So what worked last year and can we can expect more of the same? First, higher distributions to shareholders. The Majors spent the downturn shoring up finances, reducing investment, cutting costs and selling non-core assets to raise funds. At the start of 2018, most were set to cope at U.S.$50/barrel. When oil prices rose well beyond that in the early months of the year, there was cash to spare. Shell, Total and Chevron all began substantial buy-back programs during the year. This was the first important signal to investors: returning cash to shareholders ranked higher than growth expenditure. Bolstering defensive credentials seems an important step towards regaining investor confidence. Second, companies showed a measured approach to new investment in 2018. As cash flow has recovered, most have resisted the urge to re-invest. Capital expenditure is starting to pick up, which is no surprise after the steep cuts of the last few years and the lows of 2017. So far, most Majors have held any increase to single digits. ExxonMobil has been the very visible exception. We estimate it beefed up annual investment by 33%, or U.S.$5 billion, in 2018, embarking on a new investment cycle focused on its world-class growth plays in Guyana, Brazil, Papua New Guinea, Mozambique and U.S. tight oil. ExxonMobil’s share price was the poorest performer among the peer group, seemingly underlining investors’ preference for the defensive. We expect the other Majors to proceed gingerly on spend again in 2019. Yet the number of final investment decisions is on the rise, suggesting the early stages of a broader new investment cycle. It’s certainly going to happen in LNG. Shell’s go-ahead for LNG Canada and BP’s for the Tortue FLNG project in Mauritania at the end of 2018 kicked off a new wave of big new projects in which ExxonMobil, Total and Eni will also be involved. Third, companies continue in their efforts to bolster portfolio resilience. The Majors have used M&A adroitly through the downturn to strengthen advantaged positions – BP’s acquisition of BHP’s U.S. L48 assets is the stand-out example of 2018. Accessing low-cost oil was also a feature last year, with almost 4 billion barrels of oil equivalent of resource secured in UAE (Total/Eni), Oman (Shell/Total), Algeria (Total) and Azerbaijan (Equinor). These contracts may be low margin, but a key attraction is the ability to generate cash at low oil prices. Fourth, production grew despite reduced investment since the downturn. We estimate production rose by 4% on average in 2018; and the outlook in the medium-term is impressive. The combination of exploration, M&A, asset upgrades and access to discovered resource opportunities has boosted forecast production to 2025 by 10%, or 2.4 million barrels per day, compared with how we saw things in 2017. This is some feat after four years of lower capital spend. It’s the second important signal to investors – there’s no pressing need to step up investment to sustain production volumes. The fifth theme jars with the defensive narrative, but it’s a good one, nonetheless – exploration is making money again. The Majors, like the rest of the industry, slashed spend on exploration after 2014. A more focused approach to prospect evaluation, lower costs and faster project delivery has led to much-improved economic performance. 2018 was the best year in a decade, with full cycle industry returns averaging 13%. The Majors weighed in with 3.5 billion barrels of oil equivalent of reserves discovered, one-third of the industry’s 2018 total. Eni and Total’s Calypso gas discovery in Cyprus and ExxonMobil’s Guyana oil finds accounted for well over half the Majors’ total. If stock market out-performance is the metric of success, defensive is winning. We’d expect the Majors to keep the winning formula in 2019 and return surplus cash to shareholders. But it’s not a sustainable strategy for the long run and, in the not-too-distant future, the Majors will rely again on new growth opportunities from exploration to keep the business ticking over. It’s reassuring to know they’ve got their mojo back. 