Years ago, at a ministerial level meeting, the U.S. Secretary of Energy lectured other energy ministers about how ‘free markets’ would eliminate oil price volatility. Aside from being nonsensical, his comments came shortly after the U.S. had announced tariffs on steel imports, emphasizing his hypocrisy. But in response, I pointed out that there was no such thing as a free market: they are a theoretical construct. The larger point is that ideological rigidity is guaranteed to fail, regardless of the ideology. No ideology is perfect for all situations and relying solely on an ideology to drive policy is guaranteed to create problems, including using socialism as a governing policy for a nation’s economy. This post is concerned with Mexico, not the rise of Democratic Socialism in the U.S., as the new Mexican president, Lopez Obrador (AMLO), addresses the question of steering his nation’s energy policy. Part of the problem is the politicians’ typical desire to paint predecessors in an unflattering light. Remember Donald Rumsfeld arguing that the U.S. Army should not be engaged in ‘nation-building’ which led to soldiers in Iraq standing aside as looters rampaged across the country? Mexico’s energy system suffers from decades of bad policies and politics, and AMLO’s blame of the New Energy Model is concerning. “Neoliberal economic policies have been a disaster,” Lopez Obrador said. “For example, the energy reform, which they said will come to save us, but has only meant a drop in oil production and rise in gasoline prices.” Most observers would disagree with this, especially since the energy sector’s problems long predated the New Energy Model. Mexican oil production began to decline more than a decade ago, for example. And the idea that the “neoliberal” policies led to corruption is not defensible; one need only look at the Carwash scandal in Brazil and the role of state-owned Petrobras in that, or the 1MDB scandal in Malaysia to realize that corruption stems from human behavior and is not limited to any given economic system. (Indeed, Mexico has a long history of corruption under the PRI regime, but then, as a Massachusetts resident, I can safely say they are hardly alone in suffering from that particular affliction.) Granted, in early communist societies the ideologically committed cadres were famously incorruptible, one outsider commenting that Chinese Communists would not even accept an offered cigarette, but such didn’t last. Almost immediately, nations that turned to Communism saw new elites grow up. I’m reminded of the old Soviet joke, where First Secretary Leonid Brezhnev tries to impress his aged mother with his success, showing her his grand apartment, his massive office in the Kremlin with scurrying subordinates, and finally his luxurious dacha with its collection of expensive cars. When she seems nervous, he asks her what’s wrong. “Well, Leonid, it’s all very nice, but what if the Bolsheviks come back?” On the other side of the ideological coin, the economic boom of 19th century America, much of which was driven by entrepreneurs, led to a belief in some American circles that all organizations would benefit from being run like businesses. Conversely, many thought the Great Depression proved that capitalism was failing and that the government needed to intervene massively throughout the economy. Indeed, much of the support for both fascism and communism in the 1930s stemmed from the perception that capitalism was a failed economic system, rather than one with flaws (not unlike Democracy). It seems odd that many find it hard to recognize the strengths and weakness of both approaches. Free markets and private companies provide optimal economic outcomes, while the public sector is best at providing public goods like safety and the environment. In the oil industry, while I do not believe no regulation is required, it remains the case that the private sector has typically outperformed state mineral enterprise. But not always. Case in point: a couple of decades ago, a consultant I knew told me he had been approached by the World Bank to study the oil industry in Chad, which at that time consisted of minimal consumption with no crude oil production. He was made to understand, he said, that the World Bank believed that free markets would promote competition and thus efficiency. He said he refused the job because the Chadian oil market was too small (then about 10 thousand barrels a day!) to entice competitors to enter it, and a free market would almost certainly mean a monopoly. The Mexican market is certainly large enough for competition, and the government should study models like Brazil, Venezuela (pre-Chavez) and Norway, where state companies work alongside and frequently with private capital, including foreign companies but also domestic ones. It isn’t necessary to adopt some label such as the “Third Way” to simply recognize what is, and isn’t, effective. Pemex has accomplished a lot over the years, mostly in spite of the government (meaning politicians) mismanagement, but fares poorly compared to Equinor, which began life as a national oil company (Norway’s Statoil) and now produces 2 mb/d of petroleum (more than Mexico), operates in 30 countries, and produces billions of dollars in profits, without need for investment capital from the government. Given that the Mexican oil industry, including Pemex, has a much longer history than Norway, there can be little doubt that Pemex could emulate the Equinor example, and that a mixed upstream sector could see robust production results. [This post draws on research for the Energy Policy Research Foundation in Washington, D.C.]