Absolutely nothing! Say it again, y’all! Wait, actually, don’t say it again because it’s not true. Or, more accurately, it’s a gross oversimplification. Unfortunately, there are a great many misconceptions out there about inflation. Since I can't possibly address them all in a short blog post, I figured I'd take on just one: the idea that it is a net loss for everyone. The reason people believe this is partly because of the manner in which most economists teach the concept and also because we naturally transfer how a phenomenon affects us individually to the macro level. If inflation reduces my standard of living, then it must be doing the same to everyone. But what this ignores is the simple and fundamental fact that if I’m paying more, someone else is getting more. Every expenditure for one person is income for another. Hence, inflation can’t possibly be a net loss for everyone, but is instead a redistribution of income. With that in mind, think about our worst bout of post-war inflation, starting in the 1970s. The driver was the spike in oil prices engineered by the OPEC countries. Inflation accelerated from 3.4% in 1972 to 8.7% in 1973 and 12.3% in 1974. Why? Oil prices had quadrupled. Americans and other importers were paying much more for oil and this had a domino effect into other prices.    But this isn’t a net loss. While Americans and other oil importers were losing, OPEC was winning. The same thing happens domestically when there is an entity that can avoid competition and raise prices. That’s precisely what monopolies and oligopolies do (oligopolies are like monopolies but with a few firms dominating the industry rather than just one). They raise prices which causes inflation and redistributes income towards themselves. That was kind of their point. What is that kind of inflation good for? Absolutely nothing. It's bad and it’s why we have (sporadically-enforced) anti-trust laws. They are supposed to stop firms in highly-concentrated industries from avoiding competitive pressures and raising price just because they want to. However, that’s not the only kind of inflation. Another sort occurs when markets are very competitive but demand outstrips supply. For example, let’s say someone discovers that French fries cure cancer. There would be a massive surge in the demand for potatoes (and grease) and since there is little that farmers can do to raise the supply quickly, the price of potatoes will go up. This would cause inflation and a redistribution of income toward potato farmers. However, that’s exactly what we want! It would mean that those farmers would grow more potatoes and more people would be attracted to potato farming. That’s what we hope markets will do: increase the prices (and profits) of those things we want most so that more of them will be produced. There is no reason to try to stop this inflation. Rather, let the market forces sort it out and allow the shift in production to occur that consumers want. Inflation is always and everywhere a redistribution of income. If you truly want to understand an episode of inflation, you have to ask, "Who's winning from this?" Sometimes your answer will lead you to the conclusion that it's bad and sometimes not. From a broader perspective, what this means for government policy is that it should be tailored to the specific situation. We should not treat all inflation as the same. Unfortunately, that's precisely what we do. But, that's a story for another day. FYI, I had a couple of much longer posts on inflation several years ago. Just in case you are interested: Money Growth Does Not Cause Inflation! and What Actually Causes Inflation (and who gains from it) 