Today marks the beginning of Venezuela’s government’s first week without U.S. oil revenue. The U.S. government went ahead last week and sanctioned state-run oil firm PdVSA, banning crude oil exports to the United States after April 28. Before that, however, PdVSA’s proceeds from oil sales have to be kept in blocked accounts in the U.S. and cannot be transferred back to Caracas, where the ruling Socialists United Party faces an overthrow attempt by the opposition with tacit support from Washington. The Office of Foreign Assets Control sent out a clarification note on Friday explaining just what Americans could and could not buy from PdVSA and other Venezuelan government-controlled oil firms in the Party’s control. U.S. oil services firms operating in Venezuela like Halliburton have to wind down operations by late July, according to Treasury. Companies are still allowed to import oil derivatives such as heating fuel and jet fuel, however. Oil was not the only target.    American bond funds and investors in general can still hold PdVSA debt and equity issued prior to August 25, 2017, but they will be subject to certain requirements on the sale of those assets in the secondary market now. That will make trading in PdVSA bonds, currently in default with the exception of the 2020 issue, less interesting for hedge funds betting on regime change. Venezuelan president Nicolas Maduro was sworn in for his second term on January 10. The Organization of American States and the Venezuelan Bishops Council immediately declared his illegitimacy. Opposition candidates were largely banned from the ballot in the May 2018 election. Most boycotted the election altogether. Washington and Brussels later moved to recognize Juan Guaido, the legislative body’s president, as the diplomatic contact from here on in. Maduro and much of the top brass within the Socialists United, or PSUV, have been sanctioned. Bondholders are allowed to sell or transfer PdVSA-related debt or equity to non-U.S. persons. Non-U.S. persons may continue to deal in PdVSA debt and equity, but if those transactions involve the U.S. financial system, the trade cannot involve interest because American investors and entities are largely prohibited from purchasing PdVSA assets going forward. This week marks the beginning of the end of PSUV’s biggest source of cash flow. It is now increasingly likely that without the ability to pay for loyalty among the rank-and-file in the military, Maduro’s government will start imploding. Screws Tighten U.S. refiners are not immune to the crisis unfolding in Venezuela. Valero and Chevron in particular are big buyers of Venezuelan crude. With the latest order freezing sales proceeds in the U.S. until Maduro relinquishes government control and Guaido or someone from the opposition is given the reins, there is little incentive for PdVSA to sell oil to the U.S. starting now. Such a decision on the part of Venezuela would amount to a significant oil supply disruption for the U.S. Gulf Coast refining system. Oil prices are likely to rise this week. Worth noting, crude imports have declined with higher shale output, but almost 30% of the 2.6 million barrels per day of crude that Gulf of Mexico area refineries imported in 2018 came from Venezuela. Alejandro Arreaza, a Latin America economist for Barclays Capital in New York, says that unless Maduro steps down in a forced transfer of power, there is growing potential now for further escalation of the political crisis. That would weaken already dismal oil production. Such a scenario pushes gold and oil prices higher in world markets. 