Time to front-load Venezuelan crude oil imports. The Office of Foreign Assets Control clarified on Friday that Venezuela’s government has until April 28, 2019 to sell crude oil to the United States without sanctions. After that, sanctions will be imposed on PdVSA or any firm where the Venezuelan government controls 50% or more of the company selling it. Moreover, any company offshored that is buying PdVSA crude will have to wind down its purchases by that date if it is using U.S. dollars to buy it or is closing a transaction through an American financial institution. Americans working with PdVSA as contractors both in the U.S. and Venezuela are banned from working with the company beginning March 29. OFAC is not sanctioning PdVSA fuel, including Venezuelan-sourced or majority owned heating oil, gasoline and jet fuel. PdVSA owns gasoline station Citgo, which has a debt deal with Russian oil firm Rosneft. The path to sanctions relief for PdVSA and its subsidiaries depends on current president Nicolas Maduro relinquishing control to legislative assembly president Juan Guaidó or any democratically elected official “committed to taking concrete and meaningful actions to combat corruption, restore democracy, and respect human rights,” Treasury's OFAC says. Washington recognizes Guaido is the country’s interim president and has closed off diplomatic relations with Maduro and the ruling Socialists United party. Maduro issued a statement today saying Washington was instigating a coup d’état against his administration.    A bona fide transfer of control—in Washington's world view—means the takedown of Maduro and the Socialists United. Treasury said the assets of Venezuela are “for the country’s people,” but are currently being used as sources of cash flow for the party. Treasury said it will continue to use sanctions to support Guaidó, the opposition-led National Assembly, and the Venezuelan public’s call for Maduro's ouster. Chevron, Valero Biggest Buyers The Trump administration’s use of oil-related sanctions has so far been limited to Iran, but U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo floated the idea of using them on Venezuela, and now that policy is closer to reality. Oil receipts are a major source of cash for the Venezuelan government. Cutting the Venezuelan economy’s main export earnings impact its ability to import food, but Washington—and others on the ground in Venezuela—believe Maduro's government diverts at least some of that money to pay for military support. U.S. oil imports from Venezuela are not in decline, not yet anyway. According to Panjiva, a unit of S&P Global Market Intelligence, trade data shows that imports in the fourth quarter of 2018 climbed 33.9% from a year ago. Shipments for 2018 were 34.7% below 2015 levels but that has nothing to do with sanctions and everything to do with Venezuela’s state-controlled oil firm being incapable of producing more oil. Russia and China have invested heavily in PdVSA through loans and equity deals, but underinvestment in production plagues the company to this day. Besides the Russians and the Chinese, PdVSA’s mainline support is all in the U.S. After their refinery and gasoline station, Citgo, the two major importers of PdVSA crude are Valero—which accounted for 37% of imports in 2018—and Chevron at 17.6%, based on Panjiva’s trade data. The latter has been a major driver of the growth in imports, with 2018 imports up 128.7% from 2017. Was Chevron expecting this day to come? Maybe. And now they have just under three months left to load up on Venezuelan oil before it is banned. Venezuela was Chevron’s third-largest provider of crude oil in 2018, following domestic sources and Mexico. Venezuela accounted for the largest share of Chevron’s expansion in shipments, at nearly twice that of Mexico. A loss of access to Venezuelan oil could prove to be a significant challenge to both Valero and Chevron , Panjiva research analysts said in a January 29 report.   