Senators Bernie Sanders and Charles Schumer have issued a call to limit share repurchases by companies, saying in a New York Times op-ed, “…companies, rather than investing in ways to make their businesses more resilient or their workers more productive, have been dedicating ever larger shares of their profits to dividends and corporate share repurchases.” This is a masterful bit of populism, including an attack on: a) profits, b) corporations, and c) the wealthy, although it is not as radical as some of their compatriots in the Democratic Party. Essentially, instead of giving money to rich shareholders, America would be better off if workers got higher pay and companies invested in productive capacity, which would increase employment. Personally, I approve of paying workers well, since companies have rarely succeeded with an embittered or disgruntled workforce. On the other hand, adding capacity only makes sense if demand exists for the products: the 19th century notion that supply creates demand belongs in the 19th century. And the argument definitely falls down when discussing commodity producers like the petroleum industry. For one thing, the oil industry consists primarily of well-paid, skilled labor. For another, given the cyclicality of revenue, boosting investment usually means boosting input costs which accomplishes little (unless you are one of the input providers).    Needless to say, Wall Street has criticized the proposed limitations but one prominent voice is sadly missing--oilman T. Boone Pickens, who has retired from public life. Although many youngsters might remember him for his promotion of wind-power during the Obama Administration, mossbacks like myself harken back to his days in the 1980s as a greenmailer, which was not an environmental reference but referred to the use of share purchases to force corporations to give more of their cash to investors—such as himself. Certainly, such an approach can be said to be self-interested but there was an aspect often overlooked, namely his complaint that some companies were reinvesting surplus capital out of inertia rather than as part of a rational strategy. Part of the argument was that companies were recycling cash within divisions rather than where it would do the most good, that is, a division producing gas in the U.S. would reinvest in U.S. gas production, even if the returns were worse than, say, drilling in the North Sea. But also, he argued that the industry, without attractive investment opportunities, should return money to shareholders instead of investing it for poor results. At that time, the oil industry, shut out of many countries by resource nationalism, were pouring huge amounts of money into the U.S. upstream, even though it was probably the most expensive resource. Indeed, as the figure below shows, the increase in upstream activity resulted in a severe cost inflation, the cost per foot drilled tripling in nine years, while the number of active rigs quadrupled. Additionally, though, the surge in oil prices during the Iranian Oil Crisis overwhelmed companies’ abilities to find attractive investments. Unlike manufacturers or service companies, commodity producers see their revenues fluctuate enormously, unpredictably, and uncontrollably. Companies like petroleum producers sometimes find themselves with a large surplus of funds, and if they simply reinvest them, the result is all but certain to be cost inflation, spending more but to no additional return, or putting them into businesses they wouldn’t normally pursue, usually for lower returns or even losses. Such a strategy was followed by many oil companies in the early 1980s, buying department stores, office equipment manufacturers and photovoltaic companies, most of which were sold off at a fraction of their purchase price. Alternatively, a lot of companies preferred to hang on to their capital, which meant hoarding cash (which typically has low returns). Economists will naturally argue that dividends and share buybacks allow for the efficient reallocation of capital, and the petroleum industry experience definitely proves that. When oil prices surge because of political disruptions to supply such as the Arab Spring or the collapse of Venezuelan production, companies can either sit on the extra revenue, making it unproductive, or reinvest it poorly, pushing up their costs cyclically to no benefit, or give it to the shareholders, who will put it to productive use, at least in theory and often in practice. For every dollar lost on baby mops, a lot more were made on iPhones.   