If there is a lesson for the Trump administration to learn from the current political crisis in Venezuela, it is that record-setting domestic oil production doesn't guarantee America’s energy security. Forget energy independence. Every U.S. president since Richard Nixon has aspired to achieve this objective. Energy dominance is a worthy goal, but “independence” is a misnomer that ignores global market realities and the trade benefits of America’s sophisticated refining sector. We continue to import sizable quantities of foreign oil because of a mismatch between the quality of oil being produced in our booming shale fields and the Gulf of Mexico and the heavier grade of oil Gulf Coast refiners purchase from Venezuela and elsewhere to distill into high-quality gasoline and diesel. That scenario is true today with domestic production hitting a record 11.9 million barrels a day in November, and it will be true in two years when we’re expected to become a net exporter of petroleum. After meeting domestic demand, U.S. producers and refiners export the surplus, including approximately 2 million barrels a day of light sweet crude and about 5 million barrels a day of refined products, mainly gasoline, diesel, heating oil and jet fuel, bringing sizable benefits to the U.S. economy and employment. Refiners import roughly 7 million barrels a day of oil, mostly heavy sour crude with higher sulfur content that requires extra refining to produce more valuable and in-demand products. Venezuela has traditionally been a significant source of these barrels, but the OPEC country’s slow implosion prompted most refiners last year to start looking elsewhere, including to Canada, Saudi Arabia, Mexico and even Iraq. The supply disruption caused by the crisis in Venezuela exposes a weakness in America’s energy security – one with no easy fix. The result is that refiners – and therefore consumers at the pump – will pay a premium for heavy sour crude until global markets are rebalanced. The Trump administration is considering releasing some of the 649 million barrels of oil in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR), the country's emergency oil stockpile. But the SPR’s four salt caverns along the Gulf Coast hold a mix of light- and medium- grade oil, not the heavier crude used by the region’s refining sector. Past administrations have tapped the SPR in response to less serious “emergencies” in an effort to curb gasoline prices. But the current mismatch in oil grades means tapping the SPR is unlikely to relieve pressure on the spot market for heavy crude. It could temporarily tamp down prices at the pump, but the average price of gasoline is already a reasonable $2.25 a gallon, reducing the effectiveness of such a move. There are steps policymakers in Washington could take to improve America’s energy security and better align domestic production and consumption. In the short term, policymakers should consider changing the contents of the SPR, which currently holds 60 percent light sweet and 40 percent medium-grade crude, to better reflect the present needs of domestic refiners. Adding more heavy crude would give refiners a cushion to ride out geopolitical market disruptions. Longer term, steps should be taken to diversify our refining and transportation infrastructure to both increase our ability to process more domestic light sweet crude and to import more heavy crude from Canada. Canada is awash in heavy crude from its vast oil sands operations – so much so that Alberta recently shut-in some unprofitable barrels – but it faces transportation bottlenecks in sending oil south to U.S. refiners because of a lack of pipelines due to environmental protests and lawsuits. Addressing the transportation challenge requires changes in the regulation and permitting of pipelines on the U.S. side of the border, not to mention action reforms to reduce nuisance lawsuits. It’s also time for American refiners to accept that the shale boom is here to stay. Adding more capacity to distill light sweet crude would address the current supply mismatch and better align the sector with producers. The international consultancy Rystad Energy forecasts U.S. oil and liquids production will surpass 24 million barrels a day by 2025, exceeding the output of Saudi Arabia and Russia combined. Such growth would ensure domestic prices for lighter crudes remain low for the foreseeable future, providing a steady supply and solid returns for refiners. Exxon Mobil and Chevron are already increasing their capacity to refine lighter crude from the Permian Basin, the primary driver of domestic production growth. Exxon is adding 250,000 barrels a day to its Beaumont refinery for a total capacity of 616,000 barrels a day, making it the largest refinery in the country. Chevron, meanwhile, is reportedly finalizing a deal to buy a Petrobras refinery in Pasadena, Texas. Such moves by two of the world's largest oil companies show a long-term commitment to shale and its ability to generate returns both upstream and downstream. The industry is also racing to address pipeline constraints in major shale basins. Market forces are driving these changes and the oil industry is responding. Smart investment now in the transition to producing and processing more light sweet crude will reduce future disruptions in the market and strengthened America’s energy security.