It takes three things to bring a vibrant emerging market economy to the brink of collapse: corruption, revolution, and inflation. Venezuelans have seen all three, unfolding over time, though not necessarily in that order. They have also seen a long list of failed policies pursued by all sorts of right and left-wing revolutionaries, from Perez to Chávez, and Maduro -- all of whom can take their fair share of blame for bringing a country rich in natural and human resources to the brink of collapse. Venezuela’s playbook of the sum of all failed policies begins with a wave of nationalizations and labor market regulations back in the late 1970s, “long before Hugo Chavéz came to power, making conditions even worse,” says Dr. Rainer Zitelmann, sociologist, historian and author of the upcoming book, The Power of Capitalism. “One of the reasons for Venezuela’s problems was the unusually high degree of government regulation of the labor market.” That set in motion a race for further, tighter, labor market regulations. “From 1974 onwards, the applicable rules were tightened even further to a level that was unprecedented almost anywhere else in the world – let alone Latin America,” explains Zitelmann. “From adding the equivalent of 5.35 months’ wages to the cost of employing someone in 1972, non-wage labor costs soared to add the equivalent of 8.98 months’ wages in 1992.” The playbook continued with the price controls and heavy subsidies under RafaelCaldera (president twice, from 1969-74 and 1994-99) and his strange bedfellows. They made crude oil cheaper than water, and widened the government deficit -- adding to soaring government debt. Wait, there’s much more. There are the currency controls that favored foreign manufacturers over domestic manufacturers. And there was the modern version of Bolivarian socialism, which borrowed a page of two from Castro’s Cuban Socialism, and from Che Guevara’s and Salvatore Allende’ Anti-Americanism, to add to the woes of Venezuela’s economy. “After Hugo Chávez’s death in 2013, Nicolás Maduro, his successor and former second-in-command, accelerated the nationalization of dairies, coffee producers, supermarkets, manufacturers of fertilizers and shoe factories,” says Zitelmann. “Production buckled or stopped entirely.” Things turn worse when the price of oil collapsed. “Then the oil prices plummeted, losing almost 50% of their value within a single year from USD 111 per barrel in late 2013 to USD 57.60, then dropping to USD 37.60 another year later and fluctuating between USD 27.10 and USD 57.30 in 2016,” adds Zitelmann. To be fair, the collapse in oil prices had a devastating effect on every major oil producing nation. But they were amplified in the case of Venezuela, according to Zitelmann. “While this would have caused a predicament for any oil-producing nation, these problems were amplified in a country with an extremely inefficient socialist economy and strict price controls,” he notes. “The fatal effects of Chávez’s socialist policies became obvious once and for all and the entire system fell apart. As had become evident in other countries, it was apparent that, far from being an efficient means to fight inflation, price controls only make things worse.” That’s how Venezuela ended up with skyrocketed inflation. “Inflation reached 225% in 2016, higher than anywhere else in the world except for South Sudan,” says Zitelmann. “It was probably close to 800%, accompanied by a 19% drop in economic output in 2016, according to an internal report by the Governor of the National Bank.” Economists know too well what follows in this situation. “People started hoarding all sorts of things that were sold very cheaply and would frequently queue for hours to buy something they would then sell on at a much higher price on the black market,” explains Zitelmann. “In sum, again a socialist experiment was attempted, and again it failed, as all other socialist experiments have done in the last 100 years.” And the people of Venezuela are paying dearly, as the country is at the brink of collapse. 