Annual U.S. trade with the world topped $4 trillion for the first time. I just can't prove it. For the first time in 12 years, the United States set records in 2018 for total trade, total exports, total imports and total deficit, all in one year. At least I think so. The U.S. Census Bureau was supposed to release annual trade data today but, due to the longest U.S. government shutdown in history, has yet to release even the November data. With another government shutdown possible next week, if President Trump and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi can't tear down the wall between them, all bets are off on when the annual data will be released. But, projecting from the October data, I can cobble together a general overview of the year that was. That's because I have been wading in these waters for the better part of two decades. My company, WorldCity, produces annual TradeNumbers publications for port cities around the country, hosts a website of current (usually, anyway) trade data at ustradenumbers.com, and I release Trade Matters videos weekly. Quite by accident, I became something of a trade-data guy, which is actually my twitter handle, and which is why Forbes.com asked me to write these posts five times a month.    In addition to record trade, exports, imports and deficit, here are six other highlights of the year that was: Trade will have grown at the fastest rate since 2011, about 9%. As many as nine of the nation's top 10 "ports" -- there are more than 450 airports, seaports and border crossings -- set a record. Clearly, No. 2 Port Laredo, No. 3 Chicago's O'Hare International, No. 5 Port of Newark, No. 8 Port of New Orleans and No. 9 Los Angeles International Airport set records, based on the first 10 months of data. It's likely No. 1 Port of Los Angeles and No. 4 JFK International Airport did. It's "too close to call" on No. 7 Detroit's Ambassador Bridge and No. 10 Port of Long Beach, though quite possible. Ironically, the only top 10 port that did not break a record in 2018 was the fastest-growing, Port Houston, ranked sixth. It remained about 8% below the record-setting total of 2012, when oil prices were higher. Among top 10 trade partners, eight set a record, with a ninth too close to call. Moving into record territory were No. 1 China, No. 3 Mexico, No. 5 Germany, No. 6 South Korea, No. 7 France, No. 8 United Kingdom, No. 9 India and No. 10 Italy. The one that is too close to call is No. 4 Japan, which will have been close to its 2012 record total of $216.40 billion. My projections show it will have ended 2018 somewhere around $216.86 billion. The only top 10 trade partner that I am comfortable saying did not set a record is No. 2 Canada, which nevertheless topped $600 billion for the first time since its record-setting total in 2014, $660.22 billion. Finally, the U.S. balance of trade was virtually unchanged in 2018, as it is most years. The balance of trade measures, in the case of the United States, the percentage of total trade that is a U.S. export. So, while the deficit has increased more than $300 billion since plummeting in 2009 during the global economic recession, the balance of trade has barely budged. That's because exports are rising at a similar rate as imports, but not as quickly in actual dollars. Since that can be a challenging notion to get your arms around, I will provide an example. If total trade increased from $100 to $200, with exports increasing from $40 to $80, the balance of trade would be unchanged at 40% while the deficit would have increased from $60 to $120, or more than doubling. Total trade, total exports and total imports would have also doubled. For most recent years, roughly 40 cents of every dollar of total trade is an export. Some years, it's a penny higher, some a penny lower. My guess is that, due to the trade war with China, hampering some U.S. exports, and the robust U.S. economy, leading to increased imports, that balance might have slipped to 39 cents on the dollar. But I can't be certain, of course, not of any of it, thanks to the government shutdown I will take a look at the leading exports and imports in a future column.   