A year after fretting publicly about declining travel demand, especially among foreigners coming to the United States, U.S. travel promotion officials now admit 2018 saw surprising growth in demand.. Yet some of the same people who missed their forecast last year by a mile now admit, only grudgingly it seems, that travel demand will continue to be reasonably strong this year, but perhaps only through the first six months or so. So, should we expect them to be right this time when they were wrong last year? That’s the problem about making long term forecasts, whether we’re talking about weather or economics; on those relatively rare occasions when anybody cares to check back to see how you did in the past, you can’t hide your trust-eroding mistakes. A year ago declining foreign travel to the United States became so worrisome to a 15 groups representing hotels, casinos, airlines and retailers, plus the U.S. Chamber of Commerce that they formed the VISIT U.S. Coalition to raise the alarm about this nation’s 1.7 percentage point loss of total international travel market share in 2017. That lost market share, they calculated, was equal to $32.2 billion in spending that did NOT happen in the U.S. because 7.4 million fewer foreign travelers came to this country in 2017 than in 2016. And they were openly worried – angry even - about what they expected would be a further decline travel demand, especially foreign travel demand, in 2018. But a funny thing happened on the way to that pity party that many senior travel industry promoters were planning for themselves this time last year. Travel demand – and especially foreign demand for travel to the U.S. - actually picked up in 2018. Full-year results aren’t tabulated yet, but in December alone, travel to and within the United States was up a very healthy 3.6% over the same month in 2017. That’s according to the Travel Trends Index tracked by Oxford Economics for the U.S. Travel Association. That index takes into account all travel-related activities including airline flights, hotel nights, food purchased, rental cars, entertainment expenses and more. In fact, demand for travel to and within the U.S. rose last year despite a big spike in fuel prices over the first eight months of the year, a significant rise in the value of the dollar vs. most other currencies, and weakening economies in many advanced countries, particularly in Europe. A year ago, while the VISIT U.S. Coalition officially tip-toed around the obvious elephant in the room, some individual groups and travel industry leaders were quite open about their belief that foreign travel to the U.S. was down in 2017 because of President Donald Trump. Some of them believed that Trump’s policies and, just as important, his personality were the primary cause of lots of foreign travelers – leisure and business travelers alike – were choosing to go elsewhere. Thus, the implication was that Trump was bad for the U.S. travel industry, and especially for those businesses that cater especially to foreign business travelers. While all foreign travel to the U.S. represents a gain for the U.S. economy, foreign business travel is viewed as being particularly valuable because the average business traveler typically spends three or more times as much money here than does the average foreign leisure traveler coming to the States. David Huether, senior vice president of research at the U.S. Travel Association earlier this week acknowledged the obvious, that his group’s annual Travel Trends Index shows that, travel to and within the U.S. grew faster in 2018 than in 2017, opposite the expectations of many travel industry promoters early last year. Then he added that while international and domestic leisure growth was steady, “the most impressive news is that business travel” – which travel promotion leaders a year ago seemed certain would tumble in 2018 – “had its best year since 2010.” But while the current, positive trend in travel demand can’t be denied, the U.S. Travel Association still is soft-selling the combined, $2 trillion-a-year travel industry’s near-term future prospects, which it apparently believes to be vulnerable to potential weakening. In December, domestic leisure travel demand, as measured by Oxford Economics, came in 4% higher than in it was December 2017. But the researchers and the U.S. Travel Association raised concerns about softening December business travel demand growth of just 2.8% in December. There’s three problems with that analysis. One is that December is among the very weakest months for business travel, thanks to the Christmas holidays and all the work time lost to holiday festivities and time off from work. What happens to business travel demand in December doesn’t tell us much about the long term trend, either way. And two, 2.8% growth in business travel demand is a relatively strong number in any month. Yes, that's lower than the 3.6% growth in business travel demand the combined industry recorded during the unusually strong month of November. But December’s business travel demand was right in line with the average growth performance over the previous six months. So even if December is regarded as an accurate measuring stick of business travel demand, those numbers should not be concerning. Yet, based on those figures, and concerns about the broader economy here and around the world the U.S. Travel Association says it is expecting the rate of growth in travel demand to “decelerate” over the next six months. To be clear, the evidence supporting a forecast of fizzling travel demand, either in the first half of 2019, or thereafter, is weak. And it doesn't help that such forecasts are coming from the same folks who this time a year ago were publicly - and wrongly - warning of a shrinkage in travel demand shrinkage in 2018. The third problem with the travel promoters' unenthusiastic, lukewarm forecasts for travel demand in 2019 is that they stand in sharp contrast to fairly optimistic outlooks that most U.S. travel companies - especially airlines - have for this year. In a new report out this week the CAPA - Center for Aviation industry think tank says that "for now, most of North America’s largest international operators feel optimistic about the performance of their international markets in 2019, with the exception of a couple of weak areas. Those airlines also cite strong corporate demand trends heading into 2019 even as stock markets are enduring wild swings in their performance." In short, while they aren't predicting anything close to record performances this year, these carriers all have strongly positive expectations passenger demand this year. Yes, they've got their eyes peeled for signs of an approaching recession, just like everyone else in the nation. But so far they're reporting continued healthy demand from leisure travelers and strong demand from more lucrative business travelers. Barring global economic calamity - and with airlines that remote possibility still must always be included as a footnote to any forecast - the big U.S. carriers should all continue to fly with more than 80% of their seats filled and their coffers quite full. The fact of the matter is that predicting travel demand more than a few months out into the future is a roll of the dice. Travel remains highly leveraged to dramatic geopolitical events around the world and to fast, unexpected swings in both oil prices, and in the economies of both the West and, increasingly, China, Japan and the fast-growing economies of Asia. Still, U.S. travel promotors’ current inclination to soft-sell travel’s market growth potential this year, or at the very least, to hedge their bets on that topic is puzzling. The U.S. economy is strong despite the existence of some vague and largely unsupported (as yet) concerns about a retrenchment or recession ahead. And airlines, hotels and other travel companies are all spending lots money – not unreasonable amounts but still lots of money - to keep up with the expected growth in demand. No one’s saying that U.S. travel industry promoters must go all “rah-rah” and over-hype the prospects for travel demand growth in 2019. But there’s nothing wrong with laying out the facts and declaring without manufactured worry that this year likely will be another good,though not record-setting year for travel demand to, from and within the United States.