Total trade between China and the United States in 2018 will prove to have been the most in history, when the U.S. Census Bureau's shutdown-delayed annual data is released. That is despite a bruising and still-unresolved trade war and, critically, as President Trump's deadline for a resolution approaches. The annual data was supposed to be released today but won't be. In fact, U.S. Census has yet to release November data. Many of its employees, as well as those in Customs and Border Protection and elsewhere who are critical to the collection, confirmation and dissemination of export-import data, were furloughed during the longest U.S. government shutdown in history for part of December and much of January. Had it been released today, the record-breaking figure would have drawn the world's attention to the March 1 deadline Trump imposed on the world's two largest economies to resolve the trade war and raised the stakes on its resolution with already choppy financial markets. Trump has threatened to increase tariffs on some $200 billion in Chinese imports from 10% to 25% if there is no resolution by then. When those annual numbers will be released is not yet clear. U.S. Census has not released a date on its website but does indicate that November data will be released tomorrow. Extrapolating from U.S.-China trade through October, the latest available, annual trade between the two is likely to exceed $670 billion. The previous record, set four years earlier with Canada, the United States' longtime top trade partner, was $660.22 billion. Then oil prices collapsed, and in 2015 U.S.-Canada trade fell more than $83 billion -- Canada is far and away the largest supplier of foreign oil to the United States -- while trade between China and the United States inched upwards at a rate of slightly less than 1.5%. That was enough for China to supplant Canada and become the United States' top partner. The gap has widened in successive years, as oil prices have generally remained muted, as the United States has become one of the world's largest oil producers, and as the U.S. economy has remained strong, leading to an increase in Chinese imports. Unlike the trading relationship with Canada, the relationship with China is less balanced, an important factor in the onset of trade tensions between Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping. Those tensions, at least from the U.S. side, have since centered largely on Chinese requirements that U.S. multinationals release sensitive technology in order to do business there as well as alleged theft of intellectual property. In the 2014 record year with Canada, the U.S. trade deficit was $35.38 billion, and 47 cents of every dollar of trade between the two was a U.S. export. In my projections for 2018, the U.S. trade deficit with China will be more than 10 times that, in the neighborhood of $413 billion, while just 20 cents of every dollar in trade will be a U.S. export. In fact, while the record-breaking total increases pressure on the two sides, that U.S. deficit with China will have topped $400 billion for the first time. While the U.S. deficit with China has routinely set world records for years, this will be the first one to top $400 billion. 