The call is getting louder—from Washington to Brussels—for Venezuela’s president Nicolas Maduro to step down. They want him and the ruling Socialists United (PSUV) to abdicate power and make way for Juan Guaido, a man most democratic countries now refer to as el Presidente. Guaido is the president of Venezuela’s National Assembly, the equivalent of the U.S. House of Representatives. He’s like their Nancy Pelosi, the third in command after Maduro and his veep Delcy Rodriguez. Maduro stripped the National Assembly of its legislative powers in 2017, creating a Constituent Assembly of PSUV party yes-men and yes-women instead. By the standards of the Western world, Venezuela is a dictatorship now.    Last week, President Trump followed super-hawk vice president Mike Pence to denounce Maduro. To both, Guaido is president and they want the government of Venezuela to restore democracy. Which, to them, means getting rid of PSUV. Gaming this out, there are roughly three options. See: Market Ponders The End Of Venezuela’s PSUV — Forbes In Venezuela, Maduro Lives His Simon Bolivar Moment — Forbes The Battle For Venezuela’s Future — The Economist The first option absolves Washington from the coup narrative: the military convinces Maduro to step down, they appoint Delcy or some high ranking general as interim president and reestablish the National Assembly as the dual power governing Venezuela. The two sides begin working on a timeline for new elections, of which PSUV would clearly lose. That makes this scenario a bit of a fantasy, but who knows. It’s still plausible. It’s the version that has Venezuela’s government collapsing on itself, with no outside forces manufacturing its downfall. Sanctions alone cannot bring down a president. Look at Vladimir Putin in Russia, and the last decade of Iranian leaders. In the event of the government collapsing in on itself, PSUV, founded by the late president Hugo Chavez, would likely no longer exist as a political party. It would splinter off into smaller factions. The second option is Washington sanctions crude oil exports, really starving the Venezuelan economy of its primary source of cash flow. Protests get more out of hand, and we have some sort of Manuel Noriega of Panama moment. This may involve senators like Marco Rubio reaching across the aisle to convince the liberal interventionists in the Democratic Party that some sort of military support is needed to get rid of Maduro and save Venezuela from a worsening humanitarian crisis. This scenario may be applauded by the majority of Venezuelans, but the fanfare would be short-lived as any U.S. military involvement in regime change there would play into the hands of future revolutionary movements to rise again. This would serve as their “told you so” newsreel of an American coup to prove to the poor and to the liberal intellectuals in the country that they were right. It would not be a hard sell for them to do so, and would foment anti-American animosity in a country that’s been loaded with Chavez-inspired Yankee Go Home rhetoric. The third option is the worst option for Venezuela, but the best for PSUV: Maduro and PSUV dig in their heels and maintain their grip on power. Washington does not intervene out of concern that it would be a bad look for them and even endanger the opposition in Venezuela, including Guaido. The economy remains sanctioned and deteriorates further under this option. Venezuela becomes a more closed system, waiting for the day when PdVSA oil money runs out. For days, PSUV supporters have been taking to the op-ed pages in Venezuela (where the press is no longer free) and here in the States to express their thoughts on how the removal of Maduro makes Venezuela worse. Yes, the fall of a president is always messy. The end of Kirchnerism is Argentina made Argentina worse. The end of the Workers' Party rule in Brazil made Brazil worse. But these situations were caused by the parties in power. Venezeuala is not getting better under Maduro, not unless oil goes to $100 a barrel again. And then for sure Washington would ban imports of Venezuelan crude. Both Chevron and Valero are big importers of Venezuelan oil. They’d have to find it elsewhere. Sanctions are not the reason for the economic depression in Venezuela. Last year, Venezuela’s GDP contracted by around 5%, according to the IMF. The year before, it was down around 10%. PSUV has mismanaged the economy and is considered, by most people on the ground, as a corrupt political apparatus. The only thing socialist about them is their rhetoric and the fact that they subsidize things they cannot afford to be subsidizing. All of this will be taken away by a new government, hurting the working class unless mass amounts of humanitarian aid pour in (which is probable). The country is broke. It has defaulted on all sovereign and quasi-sovereign bonds. Only the PdVSA 2020 is not in default. Barring self-implosion or overt U.S. military intervention, there is no plan B if Maduro stays in power. And the only plan B, if he and PSUV go, is for the IMF to take over. Washington can call Guaido president all day long, but the real president of real life in Venezuela is Nicolas Maduro. The National Assembly does not exist, as far as PSUV is concerned. The constitutional crisis is still fluid, but the Maduro regime does look to be on its last legs. New sanctions were imposed this week on senior-level executives at PdVSA. Markets are waiting for word from the Office of Foreign Assets Control at the Treasury Department to clarify those sanctions and what they might mean for oil imports. There is some skepticism about regime change, although this is much different than the forced regime change in the middle east. PSUV has been left to run Venezuela into the ground for years. There is overwhelming public support for their ouster. Economic sanctions will only destroy the already fragile cash flow situation in Venezuela and this is seen undermining domestic military support among mid-ranked officers. “You cut off the money, you cut off the military’s loyalty,” says Siobhan Morden, head of Latin America fixed income for Nomura Securities and a long-time Venezuela watcher. The uncertainty is whether the Venezuela military finally caves to the cashflow stress, leading to option 1. A U.S.-led military intervention—option 2—looks to be on the table. Recall National Security Advisor John Bolton’s note about “5,000 troops to Colombia” in a notebook snapped in a photograph during a recent press conference with Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin. Any comparisons between PSUV and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia should be seen as a signal for military intervention to take out a party believed to be financed, in part, by narcotrafficking and extortion. PSUV-as-FARC swings the door wide open to option 2. See: The U.S. Declares Economic War On Venezuela — Forbes Option 3 is what we have now. President Maduro seems unwilling to resign at the moment. His latest offer for “talks” is a non-starter if the agenda doesn’t focus on returning legislative power to the opposition-controlled Assembly. Both sides detest one another. It’s like a cold war between the revolutionaries inside PSUV and many on the other side who came from the private sector, who saw their companies expropriated by Chavez. Worth noting, Maduro has been promising talks for at least two years. He’s even made that promise to the Pope and Vatican officials. Venezuelan Catholic bishops were the first to say Maduro is not the legitimate president of the country following his inauguration on January 10. There have been no high-profile defections from PSUV within Venezuela. The higher ranking military commanders have all circled the wagons around Maduro. “We assume that the Maduro administration has already lost support from mid-tier and junior officers and rank-and-file soldiers that equally suffer from the economic crisis,” says Morden from Nomura. It’s now a game of Survivor to see if the Maduro regime can outwit, outlast and outplay the opposition, and survive the intensity of the economic shocks yet to come. The WSJ reported this week that PdVSA has only 10 days left of gasoline supply remaining. Venezuela’s crisis isn't stagnating or improving. It’s about to get worse. On Wall Street, bond markets have already priced in a high probability of PSUV’s demise. Venezuelan bonds are outperforming their peers in emerging markets this month. The recovery value in Venezuela and PdVSA debt is near impossible to assess due to the political crisis, the worsening inflation outlook and the collapse in domestic production capacity. 