And you thought the U.S. government was just waging a war on terrorism and a trade war with China and a Cold War with Russia. Nope. Some in the House of Represenatives are waging one with OPEC. On February 7, the House Judiciary Committee passed the NOPEC bill. It is exactly what it sounds like. Bipartisan House Resolution 948 was introduced by Ohio Republican Steve Chabot on February 4. It has three Democratic party sponsors, including Texas congresswoman Sheila Lee Jackson. HR 948 seeks to amend the Sherman Act to make oil-producing and -exporting cartels illegal. That’s OPEC. Similar bills have passed the committee stage in the past, most recently in the last Congress. “It’s unclear if this will pass the House or the Senate,” says Michael Cohen, an economist with Barclays Capital in New York who put a note out about this on Thursday. “There is an alignment of interests that’s never been there before between the Democrats that see this as being an anti-Saudi measure and by President Trump himself who has been anti-OPEC for a long time. Somehow the stars have aligned,” Cohen says. The text in this most recent version basically waves the Sword of Damocles over the heads of OPEC nations and multinationals doing business there who may face lawsuits if they ran afoul of the law. This bill has a long way to go to become law. But if it does, “it will be illegal and a violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act for any foreign state or any instrumentality or agent of any foreign state, to act collectively or in combination with any other foreign state, any instrumentality or agent of any other foreign state, or any other person, whether by cartel or any other association or form of cooperation or joint action to limit the production or distribution of oil, natural gas, or any other petroleum product; set or maintain the price of oil, natural gas, or any petroleum product; or restrict trade for oil, natural gas, or any petroleum product ... if such action ... has a direct, substantial, and reasonably foreseeable effect on the market, supply, price, or distribution of oil, natural gas, or other petroleum products in the United States.” It is hard to imagine that OPEC producing nations, and OPEC-plus nations like Russia and Kazakhstan, will not see this as a threat to their most prized possessions. At home, even the oil lobby, as represented by the American Petroleum Institute (API), is against it. API has been lobbying against NOPEC to the House Judiciary Commitee members since August. On February 5, API sent a letter to the bill’s co-sponsor and Commitee chairman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) and Doug Collins (R-Ga). The same letter went to Senate Judiciary chairman Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.). API president Mike Sommers wrote that they saw the legislation as “creating significant detrimental exposure to U.S. diplomatic, military and business interests while having limited impact on the market concerns driving the legislation.” There are a number of implications that this bill would have for the overall market. Barclays thinks if this legislation passed, it would threaten the sustainability of OPEC and the OPEC-plus grouping , potentially pulling the floor out from under oil prices. Any appetite to move forward with this legislation depends on oil prices. Cohen from Barclays says there are several questions raised by this bill. Some of them include whether the Saudis would hold out on spare capacity if holding out is seen as withholding supply to the market. Would OPEC members be allowed to pursue partnerships with U.S. companies if such legislation passed? And what are the risks U.S. companies face if their partnerships are with OPEC countries? There is one other side effect of this that Cohen did not mention, perhaps because it not so easy: What becomes of the petrodollar? What’s stopping from Saudis pricing oil in Chinese yuan for their Asian markets? “The legislation threatens serious, unintended consequences for the U.S. natural gas and oil industry and its continued success in eroding OPEC’s negative market impacts,” writes Sommers. U.S. crude oil production reached record highs recently, helping to put downward pressure on gasoline prices and lowered demand for crude from OPEC producers. After April 28, OPEC member Venezuela will be sanctioned from selling crude oil to the United States due to the ongoing political crisis there. Sommers said partners with Mexico and Canada, coupled with the shale oil and gas boom, has helped the U.S. ween itself from OPEC. However, even if the U.S. is no longer importing the bulk of its crude oil needs, OPEC is still a global price setter. Oil companies and the oil lobby have not been successful at getting Washington to see things their way lately. In 2014, Exxon failed to convince the Obama Administration to go easy on Russian oil firm Rosneft. Obama sanctioned Rosneft, which essentially killed a $700 million joint venture deal Exxon had with the company. 