The prospect for implosion within the power structure of the ruling Socialists United of Venezuela (PSUV) is looking more likely. When PDVSA’s U.S. subsidiary Citgo recognizes National Assembly president Juan Guaido as the elected leader and not Nicolas Maduro, odds of a changing of the guard in Venezuela are increasing. What does a new president face? First, the obvious: He faces economic calamity and a useless currency that has been so debased the central bank had to can it and come up with a new one that went into circulation in August. Over 3 million Venezuelans have crossed the border in Brazil and Colombia in search of a better life, or better yet, survival. Inflation is out of control. A new president, whether it is Guaido temporarily or someone from the military who acts in the interim before elections take place, will have to count on outside support for humanitarian and financial aid. Sadly for the Hugo Chavez fans in the party, and throughout Latin America, that absolutely positively includes a bailoutloan from the regionally despised International Monetary Fund. As I say here often: When that day comes (and it will) Hugo Chavez would have died twice. Earlier this week, Fitch Solutions said they expect a new government will seek aid from any source willing to offer it. Humanitarian aid is most likely to come from the United Nations and maybe some individual countries. Russia, in the not so distant past, promised shipments of over 500,000 tons of grain. But the thing is financial aid. That will come from the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, which will require massive structural reforms, including a return of foreign investment and foreign companies into the Venezuelan oil market. Hugo Chavez nationalized many foreign assets when he was president and has shut out foreign investment. The very recent exception has been Russia and China, a desperation move by Maduro who relied on both countries to keep Venezuela’s most prized possession intact. It is unclear just how much aid Venezuela needs or will be able to get. To put things into perspective for a moment, Argentina has a $56 billion aid package from the IMF and while their economy was leveled due to the closed-door, quasi-socialist policies of Cristina Kirchner, Argentina’s social unrest is nothing like what is taking place in Venezuela today. Last year Colombia reportedly contacted international lending agencies about crafting a $60 billion aid package. Given the massive investment needs of the Venezuelan economy, access to international financing will be essential to lift the country of its version of the Great Depression. It will take several years before Venezuela rebounds, with significant political risk of backsliding on reforms throughout the process. This is especially true if the electorate views the new government as being too pro-business at their expense. For now, PSUV and Maduro face three options. Option 1 regime change has PSUV letting Maduro retire, and they set up an interim government that allows for the National Assembly to have its legislative powers restored. They agree to hold elections at some point. Option 2 is PSUV and Maduro dig in their heels and stay in power. They survive on black market money and loans from Russia and China. The economy deteriorates further and the Party loses more public support as a result. Option 3 regime change is a Manuel Noriega of Panama moment, with either U.S. troops, or U.S.-backed forces helping to topple Maduro. PSUV is removed from power in what looks like a coup, with Guiado installed as president until elections can be held. This option is the riskiest for both Venezuela and the United States. It is the most violent for Venezuela, and potentially the most negative long term for the U.S. as anti-American left-wing political emotions in the country can easily be stirred by the right, charismatic leader. Moreover, option 3 taints the opposition parties, namely those with close ties to Guiado, as being puppets of Washington, a bad look for sure for anyone who tries it on. Venezuela Post-PSUV There are competing views on the future of PSUV in a new election scenario. The party is unlikely to win any key positions in a new government and may splinter off into different groups, some loyal to Chavez and others creating something entirely different. One cannot overstate the loyalty to Chavismo among the rank-and-file military commanders and the poor in the shanty towns who still have fond, if not romanticized memories, of life under Chavez. To them, Maduro is the problem, not PSUV and not Chavismo. Fitch Solutions warned that the opposition coalition fractures if it looks like option 1 and option 3 are not happening anytime soon. Fitch warns the opposition may not all rally around Guaido for long. The opposition in the Democratic Unity Roundtable is the majority of the National Assembly. But they are made up of parties whose positions range from social Democrats on the intellectual leftwing of the political spectrum to pro-business, open market conservatives. On some issues, including how to govern the economy, there is little unity beyond disdain for PSUV. Guaido is the president of Venezuela now, according to Washington, Brussels, most of Latin America and many Venezuelans both at home and abroad. He assumed that role himself on January 10 when Maduro was sworn in for a second term. Maduro was elected in May 2018, but no serious opposition politicians were allowed to run against him. If there new elections, and if Maduro was allowed to run, he would surely lose to Guaido. But it is unclear whether Guaido would become the future leader should Maduro be ousted. Numerous other ﬁgures—including Guaido’s mentor Leopoldo López, Henrique Capriles, Freddy Guevara, María Corina Machado and Henry Ramos Allup—have been ﬂoated as potential presidential candidates. Venezuela has defaulted on all of its bonds except the PDVSA 2020. Vulture funds are circling, looking for the right recovery value before buying the debt dirt cheap. The new Nation Plan for debt recovery mentions “a reasonable haircut on debt and timeframe for the country to recover.” Others are more bearish and think it will take years before Venezuela can even start to put money to work to pay off bondholders. New leaders will have to maintain a “friendly posture” in order to deter litigation and attract foreign capital necessary to rebuild domestic oil production, Venezuela’s only real cash cow. “Venezuela’s economic recovery will depend upon access to external capital and friendly relations with foreign investment,” says Siobhan Morden, managing director for Nomura Securities. Maduro is sanctioned, so even if he wanted to he could not strike a deal with bond markets. The Treasury Department’s latest sanctions state that sanctions get removed only in the event of a new government. Whether that includes a PSUV government without Maduro remains to be seen, though in all likelihood it means a Guaido government until there are new elections. A resuscitated bond market is the first step to recovery. They are typically the first movers, as was the case with Argentina before the IMF came to town. One thing is certain: Whoever governs under the three options listed above will face massive political and economic challenges.