As the number of Democrats with presidential aspirations attach themselves to the expansive economic overhaul that is the Green New Deal, it’s clear the resolution is the gift that will keep on giving for Republicans all the way to Election Day 2020. The progressive manifesto – it’s nowhere close to actual legislation – is so out of touch with the realities of today’s economy and the concerns of most Americans that it’s hard to take seriously. The Wall Street Journal’s Kimberly Strassel said the Green New Deal made her laugh so hard she nearly cried. The Green New Deal (GND) hasn’t even been the subject of a hearing in the House and Sen. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell already announced yesterday that he plans to hold a vote on the proposal on the Senate floor.    The Green New Deal aspires to nothing short of a wholesale re-imaging of our national economy – which, not for nothing, is quite strong at the moment – including the elimination of U.S. carbon emissions, and the creation of single-payer government healthcare and guaranteed income. All of this would be accomplished in the space of a decade with taxpayer dollars and drastic measures to cut carbon emissions across the economy, from transportation, industry, power generation and agriculture. The resolution is the brainchild of Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Sen. Ed Markey of Massachusetts, two of the most liberal states in the country. The plan calls for meeting “100 percent of the power demand in the United States through clean, renewable, and zero-emission energy sources” with in a matter of years. It originally sought to eradicate nuclear power – a zero-emissions power source that, unlike intermittent wind and solar, is not always available – as well, but its proponents later pulled back from that pledge. Proponents of the GND ignore the fact that the United States years has become the world’s largest producer of oil and natural gas, with American consumers across the board enjoying the economic benefits both in the form of well-paid jobs and higher GDP, as well as lower prices at the pump and utility bill. America’s status as an energy heavyweight is the reason the White House can sanction both Iran and Venezuela simultaneously without sending oil markets into a panic. The GND doesn’t stand a chance as legislation and even as a marker on where the Democratic Party is on the environment it’s an albatross. Many Democrats worry they could be headed for a repeat of the cap-and-trade debacle of 2010. At the time, then Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid refused to bring the Waxman-Markey bill to a vote on the Senate floor after moderate Democrats balked at its economic cost. Public sentiment about the economy haven’t changed much since then. Meanwhile Republicans have been quick to seize on the Green New Deal as a winning idea – for their 2020 campaigns. “I think it is very important for the Democrats to press forward with their Green New Deal. It would be great for the so-called ‘Carbon Footprint’ to permanently eliminate all Planes, Cars, Cows, Oil, Gas & the Military – even if no other country would do the same. Brilliant!” President Trump tweeted February 9. It doesn’t get much easier in American politics than that. While most of the Democrats who have already declared for president are supporting the Green New Deal, they insist they’ll push only certain parts of the program. Constituents rarely remember to such distinctions when they enter the voting booth. For their own sake, progressives should recognize that energy companies have been reducing their environmental footprints for years. Energy producers are on the front lines of efforts to reduce carbon emissions and supporters of progressive ideas like the Green New Deal should consider them partners, not enemies. Energy related carbon emissions rose slightly in 2018 due to strong economic growth – a good thing, to be clear – but have steadily declined over the past 15 years thanks to the displacement of coal by cleaner burning natural gas. Any legislative proposal that eventually emerges as a result of the GND must ensure the reliability, resilience and diversity of our national power system. We shouldn’t accept proposals that would take us back to rationing and price spikes, nor should we sacrifice national security or economic growth and full employment. Voters should be wary of politicians promising easy solutions to persistent problems. Change takes time and lasting improvements are often achieved incrementally. The skepticism of Republicans to the Green New Deal is not climate denial but a realistic assessment of the size of the challenge. Democrats would be wise to get on board with such realism before voters issue their own judgement on the proposal. 