A new update to the Russian sanctions regime is expected next month and it looks like the infamous Nord Stream II pipeline is in the clear. The threat of penalties against companies involved in the Gazprom natural gas line to Germany remains, but given Europe’s adamant stance in pursuing its own energy agenda and the fact that Treasury recently removed sanctions on Russian aluminum producer Rusal, a strategic supplier to E.U. automakers, it is highly probable that Nord Stream II lives on. There are two key updates in the sanctions law. First, following the use of the “Novichok” nerve agent in an attempt to assassinate British citizen Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia Skripal, the United States determined under the Chemical and Biological Weapons Control and Warfare Elimination Act of 1991 (CBW Act) that Russia could be sanctioned under those laws. Moscow was given 90 days to convince Washington that it did not kill Skripal with an outlawed nerve agent, but (naturally) failed to do so. As Russia is running out of time, follow-on sanctions under the law could see a suspension or a downgrading of the status of diplomats, already wearing thin in President Obama’s final year in office. It could also ban measures allowing Russian state-controlled airline Aeroflot from operating in the U.S.     Nord Stream II is the biggest part of the sanctions decisions. And the most watched. Washington has clearly taken advantage of the Ukraine crisis and Russia’s support for Syrian President Bashar Assad to target the country’s competitive oil and gas industry. The U.S. is now a world-leading producer of hydrocarbons and while it does not rival Russia in terms of natural gas, there is a clear strategic impetus to trip up Russian energy companies in Europe, their main market. Nord Stream II is a new pipeline that runs right alongside the already existing Nord Stream I. The pipeline deal is one of three that were discussed between Gazprom and others when it became clear that Russia’s main transit route through Ukraine looked to be in jeopardy. Gazprom and Ukraine’s Naftogaz remain locked in an international legal battle. As a result of this broken relationship, Russia has taken to look for alternative routes. Nord Stream II is one of them. The Turkish Stream, the replacement route of South Stream, was killed out of concern it would hurt Naftogaz. Germany has been much less inclined to kill Nord Stream II. This month’s decision by EU energy ministers gave Germany the final say as to whether Nord Stream II should be exempted from the provisions of the Gas Directive, which requires a vote by the European Commission before a country enters into an agreement with a non-EU state on energy matters (read: Russia). Germany will surely want Nord Stream II to be exempt from anti-Russian Brits or LNG suppliers in Poland from blocking the deal. With that exemption, Nord Stream II is safe from Washington (meddling?) convincing other European countries to go against the pipeline. The exemption is not a done deal quite yet. The energy ministers’ February 8 decision has to be ratified by the European Parliament, and that process is bound to lead to several more months of anti-Russia rhetoric and headlines right around the time the 90-day review of the CWB phase one sanctions are set to expire. President Trump criticized Germany for complaining about the Russians in Ukraine while being dependent on it for gas during last summer’s NATO Summit. But since his meeting with Vladimir Putin in Helsinki, Trump’s turned the corner on this one. He has since declared that he is not in favor of sanctions to block the pipeline. While critics will charge that Trump is working for the Russians, who own over 50% of Nord Stream II, the same can be said about Gazprom’s key partners, including Germany's Wintersall and France’s Engie. They have sunk millions into the pipeline and don’t want Trump’s Treasury to soak them with fines. New sanctions are likely to be announced in early March, given the 90-day period begun in November. That period is supposed to be used for Treasury, the State Department and Congress to decide whether Russia has acted in good faith or not and, if not, which options under the existing sanctions laws being applied should be imposed. “Trump could continue to delay an announcement,” writes Chris Weafer, founder of Macro Advisory, a big-picture investment research firm in Moscow. Weafer says Trump will be more mindful of the impact of Nord Stream II on European companies and energy needs. Trump has been boxed in on Russia. Anything seen as too soft opens up the president to the two-year-old narrative that he is only president because Putin helped him beat Hillary Clinton. Foreign direct investment in Russia has collapsed since the second round of sanctions in August 2018. The first round was signed into law begrudgingly by Trump in August 2017. It went after Russia for Ukraine, but that time it called out Russia’s involvement in the 2016 election and its protection of Assad in Syria. But since August, foreign corporations have put the brakes on Russia. Third-quarter 2018 FDI fell by nearly $5 billion, its worst contraction in over two years, according to the central bank of Russia.   