Many shadows stalk the European continent. Brexit, economic slowdown in the Eurozone and the risk of full-blown trade wars can all be identified as recurring themes that are posing persistent challenges for Europe. Italy is one the larger Eurozone and European Union (EU) nations. It is the third largest economy worth 16.36% of the Eurozone GDP. As such, the opinion of the Finance Minister, Giovanni Tria, is certainly worth listening to.    Let me illustrate the issues in turn. The impact of Brexit will vary considerably across the EU, with some regions bracing for severe costs and others less exposed. This view has been the bedrock of arch Eurosceptics in the UK who believe the fear of a disruptive “No-Deal” Brexit across Europe can be exploited to the UK’s advantage. However, so far, despite bad defeats over her proposals in the House of Commons the EU has shown solid unity over the critical issue i.e. the Northern Irish border. Economic modelling reveals that Ireland faces the most severe Brexit consequences, with potential economic exposure on par with the impact on regions of the UK that are most dependent on ties to the EU. Other adversely affected countries will be Belgium and the Netherlands, as well as those with high volumes of trade with the UK such as Germany and France. Given there is just a mere six-weeks until Brexit is scheduled one wonders if the EU will blink as it is clear the consequences of a no-deal Brexit is something that should concern them greatly. Surely, all sides must deliver a sensible deal which disrupts as little as possible. That applies to the UK as well as the EU. European economic activity moderated in the last six-months of 2018 as global trade growth slowed, so diminishing confidence and output as several Eurozone members experienced disruptions in car production, social tensions and fiscal policy uncertainty. The upshot was that GDP growth across both the Eurozone expanded 1.2% in Q4 2018 over the same quarter of the previous year. GDP annual growth rate in the single currency area averaged 1.7% from 1995 until 2018. The Q4 figure was certainly disappointing as it was heavily down from the autumn forecast of 2.1%. Among the larger member states, downward revisions for growth in 2019 were sizeable for Germany, Italy, and the Netherlands. Many members only continue to benefit from domestic demand because of EU funds. The most worrying issue in the last quarter of 2018 was the news that the Italian economy shrank by 0.2% following hot on the heels of a 0.1% contraction in the previous period and slightly more than market expectations of another 0.1% decrease. As it was the second consecutive quarter of contraction, Italy slipped into recession. If this does not improve in 2019, the nation is on course for an escalating debt burden that it may find hard to service. Another way of measuring economic activity is to consider the pace of inflation. Consumer price inflation in the Eurozone fell towards the end of 2018 due to a sharp drop in energy prices and lower food price inflation. Consumer prices in the Eurozone were unchanged in December 2018 as widely expected by markets, after a 0.2% drop in November. There was a solid increase in prices of services at 0.9% and unprocessed food 0.4%, however, this offset by declines in costs of energy -3.2%, processed food, alcohol & tobacco -0.2% and non-energy industrial goods -0.2%. With oil price assumptions for this year and next now running lower than in autumn, Eurozone inflation is forecast to moderate further in 2019 to 1.4% before mildly recovering to 1.5% in 2020. For the wider EU, inflation is forecast to average 1.6% this year and crawl higher to 1.8% in 2020. Be it at the Eurozone or EU level the inflation is certainly lower than what one might wish to see for price stability. There is certainly an elevated level of uncertainty surrounds the economic outlook and the projections are subject to downside risks. No wonder the ECB are minded to start delaying rate increases or shrinking the balance sheet. Global trade tensions have weighed on sentiment for several months now and despite a few snippets of upbeat news they remain a concern. Further pressing as a nagging doubt is the fact that China’s economy is slowing more sharply than anticipated. The Chinese economy advanced 6.4% annually in Q4 2018, after a 6.5% in Q3 matching market expectations. It was the lowest growth rate since the global financial crisis, amid intense trade dispute with the U.S., weakening domestic demand and alarming off-balance-sheet borrowings by local governments. Taken in the round, it does not bode well for Europe in 2019 and if populists take even more power in May, the situation will descend into a sequence of excessive spending and territorial disputes between Brussels and sovereign states. Stephen Pope ~ MarketMind 