The energy media has recently featured headlines that seem at odds with one another and that, when taken together, portend the possibility of a coming train wreck somewhere down the road where crude oil supply and prices are concerned. Let's look at some of the more recent headlines as examples: "The U.S. Shale Boom is About to Get a Major Upgrade" - Investors Business Daily, Feb. 19 "Wall Street Calls for Better Returns; Shale Gets Thrifty" - Gulf Times, Feb. 17 "OPEC Cuts Send Crude Exports to Lowest Since 2015" - Financial Times, Feb. 19 "U.S. shale oil output to hit record 8.4 million bpd in March: EIA" - Reuters, Feb. 19 That Investor's Business Daily story begins by stating "The U.S. shale oil boom is about to get a whole lot bigger. The reason: Giant oil companies like Exxon Mobil (XOM) are leveraging their massive scale to unleash more production from the top-producing shale oil formation." Meanwhile, the theme of the Gulf Times story is that pretty much all of the big Permian Basin producers are exercising budgetary discipline, cutting back on their drilling budgets in response to pressure from Wall Street, and focusing instead on maximizing investor returns after the recent drop in prices. Yet, despite this exercise of "restraint," despite a slightly lower regional rig count, despite the temporary constraints on pipeline takeaway capacity, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) tells us that the pace of increase in overall U.S. shale production is continuing to accelerate over the first quarter of this year. The EIA projects that the domestic industry will push U.S. oil production past the 12 million barrels of oil per day (bopd) level for the first time in the nation's history in March, with 70% of that coming from shale plays. Fully 1/3rd of all oil produced in the U.S. in March will come from the Permian Basin alone. That pace of rising production will only accelerate further once ExxonMobil fully implements its leveraging strategy related to its own Permian operations, a strategy I wrote about in detail back in December. And ExxonMobil isn't the only fully-integrated company pursing this sort of strategy: Chevron, BP and Shell, all of which own midstream and downstream facilities in Texas, have also embarked on similar programs in the region. The reality is that, so long as the price for West Texas Intermediate (WTI) holds above the $50/bbl level, any talk of U.S. production growth being somehow "restrained" is laughable. Therein lies the rub, as no one should doubt that the OPEC-Plus nations are paying close attention to what is taking place in the U.S. and are not terribly excited about it all, at least not in a positive way. As the Financial Times story notes, the parties to the OPEC-Plus agreement have pretty much fully implemented the 1.2 million bopd of export reductions they agreed to at the end of last November. At the same time, OPEC cut its projected global crude demand growth for 2019 to 1.24 million bopd. This leads us to the following math: The most recent OPEC-Plus cuts were designed as an effort to dry up a supply glut that had built up on the market during the second half of 2018, a glut that caused the crude price collapse during the fourth quarter. Meanwhile, the current rate of U.S. production growth, if sustained throughout 2019, would more than offset OPEC's projected global demand growth for the year. This is during a time when U.S. producers are exercising restraint in their drilling levels and experiencing capacity constraints in the the nation's largest producing area, constraints that are only temporary and will become a thing of the past during the second half of this year. All of which means that, when we reach the end of 2019, assuming everything progresses as anticipated, the OPEC-Plus countries may well be faced with the prospect of having to implement yet another round of export reductions in order to maintain prices at acceptable levels going into 2020. The continued growth in U.S. production is unbridled by any government constraints , so U.S. producers are going to keep drilling and producing so long as that is a profit-generating proposition. Having already gone through several rounds of production/exports cuts over the last two years, it is anyone's guess as to how many more rounds the OPEC-Plus nations will be willing to sustain. Barring some dramatic market changes, the world will most likely find out if they're all in for one more later this year. 