Holy Moley! The oil and additive specialist, Liqui Moly, part of the Würth Group, is joining up again with the world of Formula One (F1) by investing millions of U.S. dollars to advertise trackside at eleven F1 meetings - as one of just a few select brands. And, it could well pay dividends. The goal of the campaign from the German-based company founded in 1957 is to entice an estimated global audience of more that one billion viewers each year who follow the F1 championship to become more familiar with the company’s brands, and ultimately boost sales of their products, which are sold in some 120 countries. The deal also comes a couple of months after the company headquartered in Ulm, a city in the south German state of Baden-Württemberg, reported new record turnover of €544 million (c.$615 million). That said, this figure was just 2% higher than the previous year. The company at the time of these figures (December 27, 2018) cited international trade disputes, a weak Russian ruble, the hot summer and increasing costs (especially dramatically increased crude oil prices), for having contributed to a “significant slowing down” in earnings growth. As such, the firm is seeking to push envelope by initiating this F1 ad campaign, especially as their domestic market share is at its virtual peak and the growth they see as lying overseas. Ernst Prost, CEO of Liqui Moly, commenting on this F1 development said: “The aim of advertising in Formula 1 is to raise our brand profile. Oils and additives do their job invisibly, hidden in the depths of the engine. They’re not products that drivers see and get thrilled about on a day-to-day basis. This is why brand visibility is all the more important. And, top-class quality alone is not much help if nobody knows about the benefits.” Liqui Moly is to be showcased trackside for the first time on a large scale at the Bahrain Grand Prix on March 31, 2019. And, thereafter the company’s logo will be on show at half of the remaining races in the F1 calendar. Prost asserted that F1 and Liqui Moly were a great match - saying that “after all, both stand for absolute top-class performance.” Following the Bahrain Grand Prix, the German company’s logo will be on show at half of the remaining races. It is understood that the campaign will cost the company several million dollars, but declined be specific about the exact consideration. “If you want to reach that many people all over the world, you can’t be a penny pincher: you have to think globally and make huge investments,” Prost ventured. Formula 1 is not new to the lubricant brand. Back in the early “noughties” (2000’s) Liqui Moly was involved with Team Jordan. As for the sponsorships of privately held parent company Würth Group, in addition to having supplied tools and fasteners to Panasonic Toyota Racing in F1 (2008) and the company's logo featuring in the pit garage and team trucks, in the U.S. Würth became a primary sponsor in seven Nationwide Series races on the #12 Team Penske Dodge/Ford for the 2012 season. And, in 2014 it was a primary sponsor in four Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series races on Brad Keselowski of Team Penske's #2 Ford Fusion. Branding: Oils & Additives “Oils and additives do their job invisibly, hidden in the depths of the engine,” Prost went on in explaining the rationale for the latest campaign. “They’re not products that drivers see and get thrilled about on a day-to-day basis. This is why brand visibility is all the more important for Liqui Moly. Top-class quality alone is not much help, if nobody knows about the benefits.” The company, which produces a range of around 4,000 items, offers a global and broad range of automotive chemicals - spanning motor oils and additives, greases, sprays and car care and glues as well as sealants. In addition to Formula 1, Liqui Moly’s international activities include the motorcycle world championship MotoGP and the touring car championship TCR. Further, the company has a whole range of involvements at the national, regional and local level. But the company, which has been part of the Würth Group for around a year now, does not limit its activities to motor racing. Their blue, red and white logo has been in view this winter at the world handball championships, which broke all records, at the ice hockey world championships, at the Four Hills Tournament, at the world ski championships and with the Chicago Bulls in the NBA. “This taps into new target groups and customers for us, as well as bridging over the winter break in motor racing,” explained Peter Baumann, the firm’s Marketing Director, adding: “Three factors are always crucial, namely: (1) the number of spectators on site; (2) the media presence; and, (3) the potential for creating positive associations with our own brand image.” As well as its sponsorship, Liqui Moly also stimulates business by means of classic advertising. To that end, in autumn 2018 they initiated their first worldwide digital campaign, which they say generated 1.6 billion contacts. The pressure it seems to advertise has according the CEO Prost “increased” over recent years. He said: “We have to promote ourselves even more to even get noticed, which means investing more money on raising our brand profile.” Another advertising campaign costing millions is shortly due to get underway in Austria and Germany, which will involve the company with some 850 employees placing double-page advertisements in all the relevant automobile magazines and periodicals. This campaign was prompted by a recent vote held by German automobile magazine, Auto Zeitung. Readers of the magazine named the company as producing the best oil brand as Liqui Moly, and “Top Brand” among the oils by readers by the title every year since 2010. On the international front, the company is increasingly deploying a new sales strategy. Traditionally the company has sold its products through independent importers in most countries. In Italy and France, the company will now be taking care of its own sales. In the U.S. market it has a subsidiary, Liqui Moly USA, Inc. Prost in explaining the rationale for the change in sale strategy and direction said: “Not every importer has the resources required to develop sales the way we would like to. And, our potential is on a totally different scale when it comes to growing - not just in small steps - but in huge jumps.” That of course does mean initially spending money on adverting and staff, but as Prost posited: “These investments pay off in the long run - both Italy and France hold enormous potential for us.” Looking forward and after seeing a 2% sales growth in 2018, Prost indicated the firm wants to really to “make a splash in 2019.” And, part of executing on this will be their appearance in F1. With that in mind, the target this year is “at least €600 million” (c.$678 million) or around a 10% increase. As the Audi catchphrase goes, Vorsprung durch technik.