Everything is not awesome. Everything is not cool. Venezuelan president Nicolas Maduro has about 45 days before his government implodes, says Alejandro Arreaza, an emerging markets research analyst with Barclays Capital in New York. Maduro’s Socialists United of Venezuela (PSUV) is making it harder for foreign shipments of medicine and food to arrive in downtrodden South American nation, with official television channels warning Venezuelans not to eat food from humanitarian missions because it might be poisoned. This marks year three of Venezuela’s great depression. Oil production is in decline, and not for the inability to raise funds either. China and Russia have been throwing money at oil firm PdVSA for at least three years, and yet the company is on the verge of bankruptcy. It has defaulted on every bond issue it has out there, except the 2020 bond. Last week, Washington sanctioned the trading of PdVSA bonds in the secondary market and banned sales of crude oil into the U.S. after April 28. Sales can continue today, but revenues cannot be repatriated and must be locked up in a PdVSA account in the U.S., stripping Maduro's government of much-needed cash. This week, European countries have frozen about 20% of the government’s financial assets. The cashflow constraints will only mount going forward, making it harder for PSUV’s top leadership to keep the rabble in line. Moreover, it will be harder for the midlevel members of the military to support Maduro, possibly leading a greater number of them to side with National Assembly president Juan Guaido. Guaido declared himself the interim president around January 10, following Maduro's second-term inauguration. Most Venezuela watchers deemed his election a fraud as major opposition candidates were disqualified from the ballot. As Maduro was not elected in a fair election, Guaido used constitutional powers to declare himself president seeing how he is the highest-ranking elected official in the country after the president and vice president. Guaido was given tacit support by Washington last month. “Without a solution to this impasse, we believe the country could be on a path to a fully anarchic situation that could compromise the country’s economic capacity to recover,” Alejandro Arreaza of Barclays Capital’s emerging markets research team said in a note to clients on Tuesday. “We expect the actors involved in the crisis, aware of this risk, to take actions to accelerate the transition process in the upcoming weeks.” Short term, Venezuela's political crisis has three possible outcomes. The first is for PSUV and the military to rally around Maduro, testing the unity of opposition parties in the National Assembly that support Guaido. In this case, the economy deteriorates further. The second option is for the U.S. government to either overtly or covertly support an armed overthrow of Maduro, not much different from what occurred in Panama during Manuel Noriega’s tenure. In fact, one of the people in charge of Venezuela policy now is Elliot Abrams. Abrams was instrumental in that operation to overthrow Noriega, citing drug trafficking charges. Many PSUV officials, including former vice president Tareck El Aissami, have been accused by the U.S. Treasury Department of aiding and abetting in drug trafficking. Guaido said he supports a U.S. military intervention, but so far Congress has stood down, seeming to prefer at least publicly that the third option unfolds sooner rather than later. That third option is PSUV imploding on its own. Loyalists in the party created by the late Hugo Chavez largely see Maduro as the problem, not the party’s politics. They could convince him to resign in order to save Chavez’s legacy and the party itself. If PSUV implodes, it is unclear if a new military leader would take over for the rest of Maduro’s term and return the legislative powers back to the National Assembly, or if they would call for new elections. Venezuela will need years to recover. Most analysts expect foreign aid packages from the UN, International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank to keep the country afloat post-Maduro. 