Oil and gas companies are facing competition from renewable energy and electric vehicles, a global campaign against the use of plastics and increasingly stringent climate targets. In the face of these challenges, shareholders want them to prioritize returns to investors rather than endless growth. Most oil and gas companies are jeopardizing shareholder returns by rewarding bosses for endlessly chasing growth in a world where pressure to meet climate targets and sharp falls in renewables costs are set to eat into future demand , finds a report from The Carbon Tracker Initiative, a not-for-profit financial think tank that seeks to promote a climate-secure global energy market by aligning capital markets with climate reality. And the group warns that companies may have to shrink in order to offer the highest returns to shareholders . It analyzed the link between remuneration policies and total shareholder returns after the 2014 crash and found companies that rewarded growth were outperformed by those that rewarded financial returns. From a basket of 18 US exploration and production companies, in the two years from mid-2014 total shareholder return at the three companies with the lowest incentives for growth (determining 0%-20% of annual bonus) was 7% p.a. higher than at the six companies with strongest incentives for growth (determining 50%-100% of annual bonus). Carbon Tracker has previously warned that global demand growth for oil is set to weaken then start falling during the 2020s, and its new report, Paying with fire: How oil and gas executives are rewarded for chasing growth and why shareholders could get burned, warns that companies that try to maximize production are at risk of overinvesting and wasting money on projects that deliver poor returns and destroy value. The report analyses remuneration schemes at 40 of the largest listed oil and gas companies in North America, Europe and Australia, and will fuel investor campaigns for policies that deliver better value, Carbon Tracker says. The report was released in advance of the annual meeting season and shows that policies which incentivize production growth and reserves can deliver less value to investors than schemes which reward top executives for delivering financial returns. Andrew Grant, senior analyst at Carbon Tracker and author of the report, said: “The vast majority of oil and gas companies incentivize their executives to chase growth -- behavior that risks destroying value given uncertainty over future demand. This report provides shareholders with the ammunition they need to challenge this approach and press for remuneration policies which reward executives for delivering solid financial returns.” Carbon Tracker found that: Carbon Tracker warns that no more than a third of proven reserves of fossil fuels can be burned if the world is to stay below 2°C of warming, and considerably less under the Paris Agreement commitment to stay as close as possible to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. Even a slowdown in the rate of growth can have a major impact. The oil price crash of 2014-16 was caused by a 2% excess of supply over demand. The value of the biggest oil and gas companies (measured by the S&P Global Oil Index) fell by 51% from June 2014 to Jan 2016 even though crude oil demand grew by 3% over the same period. “Focusing on generating the highest returns may mean getting smaller in terms of absolute production, as capital is returned to shareholders or redeployed in other sectors where sufficiently low-cost oil and gas project options aren’t available. Executives should not have pay packets that reward them for chasing ever greater volumes of reserves and output,” Grant said. The report notes that, in contrast to the previous era of high investment and declining returns, since the 2014 crash there has been pressure from investors to prioritize returns over volume growth, or “manage for margin”. For example, in 2015 BP accepted a shareholder resolution which has led to a rebalancing of incentives away from growth measures towards more returns-focused metrics. BP is one of ten companies which introduced or increased incentives for executives to deliver financial returns in 2018. 