Nicolas Maduro told the BBC on Tuesday that the country doesn’t need humanitarian aid, that it is being used to justify some sort of foreign intervention in his government. More than that, despite the BBC showing him footage of his countrymen rummaging through garbage, plucking out the remnants of food and eating it, he insisted the Western press is over-exaggerating. Meanwhile, Maduro’s ruling Socialists United Party (PSUV) continues to dig in its heels as calls for new leadership reverberate around the world. PSUV is handing out hunting rifles to people, brainwashing them to believe that a Yankee invasion of the homeland is imminent. Truth be told, however, National Assembly president Juan Guaido said recently that he would welcome American troops on the ground, a nod to a coup d'état that feeds the PSUV narrative. Such a move by Washington would likely backfire over time. Venezuela is in a crisis entirely of PSUV’s making. It’s not just because of falling oil prices. Oil prices have fallen for Russia as well, and their oil companies and top banks have been sanctioned by the U.S. And yet, Russia survives. Its economy will grow by around 1.5% this year, which is not great, but better than the third year of economic contraction for Venezuela. Hyperinflation, entrenched corruption and distrust of the political leadership across party lines likely mean that Venezuela will take many years to recover. “The economy has not been invested in in a long time,” says Katherine Renfrew, a fund manager with TIAA Investments. “Once you do get a change of government there, the IMF would come in. But I think you would also need the World Bank to get involved because Venezuela needs that scale of economic development again. I don’t think people appreciate just how bad things are.” Maduro’s challenges are becoming increasingly evident as he denies the realities on the ground. Hospitals are overcrowded, with some patients literally lying on towels on the floor in makeshift hospital beds. Newborn babies have been seen kept in laundry baskets. Supermarket shelves are far from full. Crime is rampant. The situation is out of control. “Without a solution to this impasse, we believe the country could be on a path to a fully anarchic situation that could compromise the country’s economic capacity to recover,” Alejandro Arreaza of Barclays Capital’s emerging markets research team said in a note to clients on Tuesday. “We expect the actors involved in the crisis, aware of this risk, to take actions to accelerate the transition process in the upcoming weeks.” In other words, Venezuela could fall apart quickly, by BarCap’s assessment. One of the reasons Barclays thinks things deteriorate faster from herein is sanctions on PdVSA. PdVSA can no longer repatriate crude sales earnings from the U.S. Revenues have to be held in blocked accounts in the U.S. Worse yet, if Maduro is still president after April 28, PdVSA will be banned from selling crude oil to the U.S. Oil production is still falling. Companies that normally resell Venezuelan crude have not found ways to mitigate the effect of the U.S. sanctions. Oil storage capacity could be filled up in less than a month, exacerbating production shutdowns. European countries have frozen about 20% of the government’s financial assets, including last week’s headline that London blocked repatriation of Venezuelan-government owned gold held in a vault there. China and Russia have been throwing money at Venezuela, namely at PdVSA, to no avail. It is unclear what these two will get out of this once the dust settles. Russian oil firm Rosneft is an equity stakeholder in Citgo, PdVSA’s refinery and gasoline station. Like the song says in the new Lego movie, “Everything is not awesome. Everything is not cool.” The weekend blockade by the Venezuelan military of humanitarian aid from Colombia will not win Maduro any accolades. Whether or not food and medical supplies are ultimately allowed to enter Venezuela, distribution of foreign aid would be an admission of failure on the part of Maduro. “Absent a resolution in the next 30 to 45 days, the country’s situation could become even more dangerous,” Arreaza says. Arreaza expects more pressure from Guaido and Washington for new leadership, a change that could come as early as this quarter. A PSUV implosion leading to the recognition by the armed forces of Guaido as interim president is the most likely scenario. Preparations for new elections would begin. The worst-case scenarios are an overt Panama-style U.S.-backed overthrow of Madur, or the military opting to circle the wagons around their president in a last ditch effort to preserve the legacy of the party’s deceased founder Hugo Chavez. Chavista loyalists have been deserting the military and have been punished for it, according to a report last year by Human Rights Watch. Meanwhile, Chavista loyalists in the shanty towns have been giving up on Maduro and see him as the problem, rather than the party’s politics. Loyalty to Chavez could easily be transferred to loyalty to the Socialists United in the event of a Panama-style regime change in Venezuela, potentially setting the table for prolonged civil unrest. Get timely investing news and information from Forbes Investing Digest. Sign up now, its free. 