Despite the skepticism over the health of the stock market, and warnings of an “earnings recession”, stocks put in another very strong performance last week. Those who took short positions after the prior week's correction were sorely disappointed. My advice last weekend was to not join the Wall Street bears, and those that heeded my words last weekend should be doing well. For the week, the Russell 2000 again led the market averages, up 4.05, followed by a 3.84% gain in the Dow Jones Transportation Average. The Dow Jones Industrials were up over 3%, while the S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100 were not quite as strong. The Dow Jones Utilities were down just slightly. One development that did not get much attention last week was the new all-time high in both the NYSE All A/D line and NYSE Stocks Only A/D line. Even though the NYSE Composite is still 5.2% below the late September high, the advance/decline analysis indicates that the NYSE is now stronger than it was then. The NYSE All A/D line peaked in August (which I have been noting since Fall 2018), and then formed a lower high when the NYSE made a new high in September. This bearish or negative divergence is a sign of weakness that was not reversed until the downtrend (line b), derived from the divergence, was overcome in January. This past week, the NYSE All Stocks closed above the August high (line a). This action was supported by this week’s new high in the weekly NYSE Stocks Only A/D line (line c). This is consistent with January’s new high in the monthly S&P 500 advance/decline line, which I discussed in early February (see chart). In a search of the weekend commentary, this development was not mentioned, which I find is a positive factor for the market bulls. The Bullish-% of individual investors, according to the latest survey from the American Association of Individual Investors (AAII), declined 4.8 points to 35.1%. This is still below the long term average. The Bearish-% has risen to 25.07% from the prior week’s low reading of 22.78%. What about the market professionals? According to the weekly Investors Intelligence survey, just under 50% of market newsletters are bullish, which is still well below the 61.8% that was reached just before the top in early October. Also, in Bank of America Merrill Lynch's latest survey of fund managers (handling a total of $515 billion) they reported that “44% of respondents said they were overweight cash, a level not seen not seen since 2009.” BAML's data also indicated that their allocations to global equities was the lowest since September 2016. It is interesting that the weekly A/D line made a new high that September. It was subsequently followed by a 5% correction in October heading into the election. A powerful rally got underway just after the election. So while some may be nervous now based on the current low allocation to global equities, a look back at September 2016 reveals that bearishness then was unfounded. This low allocation may reflect traders' distrust of the recent rally, but as the market moves even higher, there are fewer in the bearish camp. The question now is how high the market must go before the remaining bears throw in the towel. That is one of the many problems I have with those who favor a more fundamentals-based approach to market analysis. Those that have been bearish throughout the rally, or even just since the S&P 500 overcame the 2650-level, do not appear to have a price level that, if reached, would be evidence that they are wrong. As part of any solid technical approach, one should always have a price level that does just that, and allows you to minimize the risk. Of course, using technical methods, one should be reducing the risk on long or short positions as the market moves in their favor. Therefore, I was surprised at one high-profile analyst who is arguing that those who bought the December lows will add to the market’s pain and start selling once those lows are broken, adding to the market's decline. Anyone who waited to sell until the lows are broken again is not demonstrating good money management. And so of course, those who let a 17% market gain turn into a loss will have trouble making money. Of course those who warn about the sky falling will be right, at some point, as a bear market will eventually happen. There are also likely to be market corrections this year that will test the faith of the market bulls and give hope to the bears. The weekly chart of the Spyder Trust (SPY) shows that, on a move above the widely-watched resistance at $280, there is still strong resistance just a bit higher in the $281-$282 area (line a). So if the SPY does move above $280, and convinces the remaining bears that they have been wrong, there is still further resistance above that level. The weekly S&P 500 A/D line broke through resistance (line c) three weeks ago and continues to make new highs. A similar trading range (line b), was completed in May, which resulted in a seventeen-week rally that peaked in early October. There was a two-week correction in June, and I think a similar correction is likely this spring, so traders and investors should not be complacent. We may get a warning from the weekly charts before a meaningful correction so I hope you will read “One Chart Formation You Shouldn’t Ignore”. The Invesco QQQ Trust (QQQ) rallied in late trading Friday, but was weaker than the SPY or iShares Russell 2000 (IWM) throughout the day. For example, IWM was up 1.6% for the day, while the QQQ gained just 0.42%. The weak action in all of the FANG stocks was clearly a factor. There is next resistance in the $175-area with stronger at $178 (line a). The A/D numbers were much stronger than prices which bodes well for next week, as the Nasdaq 100 A/D line moved sharply higher last week. The A/D line has first good support at its WMA and then at the September high (line b). The Energy Sector Select (XLE) was the top-performing major sector, up over 5% for the week. The April Crude Oil contract was up 5.4% for the week, closing at its best level since mid-November. The weekly studies are positive, so I still think a move to the $60-area is a possibility. The economic numbers were mixed last week, as the sharp 1.2% drop in Retail Sales hit the market on Thursday. The fact that it is not consistent with the most recent jobs report and other data suggest that this is a one-month aberration. It was positive that the CPI and PPI were lower last week, consistent with the low inflation expectations. The Empire State Manufacturing Survey and Consumer Sentiment both came in better than expected. There will be quite a bit on interest in Tuesday's Housing Market Index, which is trying to recover after November’s plunge. There are FOMC minutes out on Wednesday, with Durable Goods, the Philadelphia Fed Business Outlook, Existing Home Sales and Leading Indicators on Thursday. The yield on the 10 Year T-Note has been range bound (lines a and b), since the early January lows. This looks to be a continuation or a pause in the trend of declining yields. Therefore, another drop in yields looks likely. The daily momentum, based on the MACD-Histogram, is declining, and only barely positive. There are now fewer ETF's that are coming out of bottom formations, but there are a number of stocks that are just bottoming and show very positive chart formations. An example last Wednesday was Dana Corp. (DAN), which had a high in January 2018 of $34.53 and declined to a low of $12.65 in late December. The stock had moved sideways after a strong four week rally. The weekly relative performance and on-balance volume had both completed bottom formations. Even though they were reporting earnings on Friday, I recommended DAN, and it closed up 10.4% on Friday. For those who were not in the market, I recommended a four-week dollar-cost averaging plan just before Christmas. Those that took my advice completed their last dollar cost average purchase on Monday, January 14. The other three purchases were made on 12/24, 12/31, and 1/7. The average closing price of the S&P 500 on these four days was 2497. I would sell 25% of the position on a move above 2805, for just slightly more than 12% profit. But as long as the S&P does not have a Friday close below the QPivot at 2597, I would hold the remaining long positions. In my Viper ETF Report and the Viper Hot Stocks Report, I provide my A/D line analysis twice each week with specific buy and sell advice. New subscribers receive six trading lessons for just $34.95 each per month. 