A new report issued on Monday by the Texas Independent Producers and Royalty Owners Association (TIPRO) asserts that 2018 was an all-time high for oil production in the state of Texas. In its 2019 State of Energy Report, TIPRO notes that "[2018] oil production in Texas totaled a record 1.54 billion barrels (bbl) in 2018, surpassing a previous record of 1.28 billion bbl set in 1973." How big is that total production number? Per TIPRO, the second largest oil producing state, North Dakota, came in with 443 million barrels of total oil production for the year, about 29% of the total produced in Texas. Given that, according to the Texas Railroad Commission's (RRC) official data, Texas crude production for 2017 came in at 1.027 billion barrels, that means that oil producers in Texas basically increased the state's oil production by more than the equivalent of North Dakota's in a single 12-month period. The RRC's data goes back to 1935, which was during the midst of the oil boom created by the massive East Texas Field, and shows that the overall production increase of more than 500 million barrels from 2017 to 2018 is the largest in the state's history, and it isn't close. The largest previous year-over-year leap was one of 174 million total barrels from 1950 to 1951. Simply put, Texas is in the midst of the single largest oil boom its economy has ever seen. As Democrats in Washington, D.C., led by New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, roll out their "Green New Deal" plan to ostensibly make fossil fuels "obsolete" within a dozen years, Texans of all political stripes should step back and think about what that would mean for the state's economy. As examples, the TIPRO report provides a wealth of data for Texans to consider: This list could go on and on, including the fact that the Texas Rainy Day Fund, the nation's largest with a current balance approaching $12 billion, is funded almost entirely by the severances tax on oil and natural gas. Despite the enormity of the Texas oil and gas industry, the state is far from being a one-trick pony when it comes to energy production. Texas is also far and away the nation's largest producer of wind energy, and has a rapidly-growing solar industry as well. This is why, in his town hall meeting on CNN Tuesday night, independent presidential candidate and former CEO of Starbucks Howard Schulz praised the state government's stewardship on energy policy, saying "Here we are in Texas, where oil and gas is a primary product of this entire state. But yet you lead the nation in wind energy. So it's not an either-or situation. We can do both." Schulz went on to criticize the Green New Deal, and encouraged Democrats to be more "realistic" about their real intentions rather than throwing proposals "against the wall because it's a good slogan...let's be sensible about what we're suggesting." In a state in which Democrats made electoral inroads in the 2018 mid-term elections, Texans will have to decide for themselves whether or not to vote for candidates pushing the provisions of the Green New Deal when the 2020 general election comes around. By so clearly documenting the scope and scale of the state's ongoing oil and natural gas boom and the contributions the industry makes to the Texas economy, TIPRO has provided them with some tremendous food for thought. 