Russia, the bad guy of all bad guys, whose president is probably more universally disliked (at least in Washington, London and Brussels) than Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman. The preferred home nation of James Bond villains and unruly oligarchs who will slander you and ruin your life for a bad business deal may be returning from the brink. Moody’s gave them their coveted investment-grade rating back on February 10. All three American credit rating agencies have Russia at investment grade again, which means U.S. bond funds that are mandated to only invest in investment-grade debt can now get back into Russia. “I was surprised it took Moody’s so long,” says Katherine Renfrew, a fund manager for TIAA Investments. They manage around $13 billion in emerging market debt and own Sberbank and Gazprom bonds. Although those companies have been sanctioned by Washington, their bonds are free to trade so far. Threats have been made to sanction those bonds, but nothing has happened yet. Russia has had a pretty good month.  The VanEck Russia (RSX) exchange traded fund is beating the MSCI Emerging Markets Index year-to-date, up 11.3%.    A Senate committee looking into Russian collusion came up empty, meaning Vladimir Putin looks right when he says that he and his cohorts did not orchestrate a coup against Hillary Clinton to elect Trump president. The Special Counsel investigation into Russia collusion also looks to be tapping water from a stone. Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s most important entity, aluminum powerhouse Rusal, got sanctions reprieve last week. The company’s British chairman, the former Tory politician, Greg Barker, managed to convinced Deripaska to relinquish some of his controlling interests in the company. Deripaska is sanctioned as an individual, but his company is not. Even if Deripaska had to give up some of his shares, they are worth a heck of a lot more since the deal with Treasury went through. En+Group, the holding company that owns Rusal, is up 61.8% on the London Stock Exchange. Rusal shares, listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange, are up 51.7%. “The scale of this deal was unprecedented,” says Mike Dobson, part of the legal team at Morrison & Foerster. Dobson was a Senior Sanctions Policy Advisor in the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) up until November. There, Dobson was one of the U.S. government’s leading sanctions officials in the development and implementation of sanctions policy toward Russia. “Oleg divested himself down to around 44.9% and took steps to sever his control over En+Group. In exchange for that, there are no sanctions on Rusal now,” Dobson says.  Russia is one of the emerging markets least susceptible to international volatility from trade wars and West European political dramas. Make no mistake, the powers of Europe are in lockstep with the U.S. foreign policy view that Russia is a hostile player in world affairs. They continue to keep the Russians out of the club. As a result, Russia has had to innoculate its economy. They have put into practice a number of macroeconomic policies that have helped insulate Russia from external matters like sanctions. Putin also passed highly unpopular pension reform to lower the state's pension burden and raised the VAT tax at the same time. His popularity took a hit, but he did it anyway. The central bank has also allowed the ruble to free-float since the fall of 2016. And Putin’s economic team, led by Anton Siluanov in the Finance Ministry, has been successful in their conservative fiscal approach to running the show. Government debt in Russia is basically nonexistent. It is equal to just around 10% of its GDP. “Russia has also been on a different business cycle than the rest of the globe because of sanctions,” says Roland Nash, chief investment strategist for the Specialized Research and Investment Group, or Spring, a Russian hedge fund manager. Interest rates are rising in Russia and towards the end of the year, when inflation is expected to come down, monetary policy will be in easing mode. “Russia is one of the markets that is not facing the end-of-cycle trends we are seeing elsewhere,” Nash says. Besides the equity market for retail investors, most of the institutional money is in Russian bonds. The only fear is Washington slapping sanctions on them. Markets have to be one step ahead. Corporate bonds are cheap, but sanctions threats might keep them that way. The yield is good for investors who want to hold until maturity. “We were overweight last year. The sanctions threat keeps as neutral,” says Philip Torres, co-head of emerging markets for Aegon Asset Management. Even so, as Russia pulls back from the brink, its economic growth is not as exciting as in other BRIC countries. Brazil is early in its cycle too and has a more diverse economy with similar bond yields. Russian GDP growth is similar to Brazil’s, growing at 1.8% in 2018. Higher interest rates and the VAT means growth won’t be much better this year for Russia. Nash at Spring thinks it is lucky to hit 1.5%. “I think things improve much more for Russia’s economy next year,” Nash says. “You will have interest rates coming down, and that means leverage can increase.”   