Could Russian bonds get the Venezuela bond treatment in the Senate’s latest draft of a new sanctions bill? The short answer to that question is yes. Does that mean it is happening? The market is betting in favor of much stricter sanctions on Russian bonds, pushing Russian 10-year bond yields higher on Friday but not sending the ruble much lower on Monday. The ruble was relatively flat on Monday, down just 0.06% to 66.286 rubles to the dollar. Ruble strength may be because American traders were off yesterday due to the President’s Day holiday. Europe didn’t send the ruble packing. It’s still one of the strongest emerging market currencies around, even outperforming the Brazilian real, which is the hottest of the BRIC equity markets. “I have no idea what new sanctions would look like. Maybe they will just limit investment on Russian sovereign debt," says Alina Sychova, head of capital markets origination for Sova Capital a Russian investment bank in London. “Over 40% of Russian government bonds are held by foreign investors. So if you cut them out of that you’re punishing both sides.” New bond issues by sanctioned Russian banks Sberbank and VTB Bank cannot be purchased by Americans, except in the secondary market. The secondary market is where the pain really kicks in because it freezes out the potential for anyone to realize any gains in those bonds. They become dead money. The U.S. did this with Venezuelan sovereign bonds and its quasi-sovereign PdVSA just last week. Those bonds are now untradable by Americans. “If they banned secondary trading, you’re potentially limiting the owners from the U.K. to Germany because now they lose the American market to sell to and maybe even transact with,” she says, assuming U.S. intermediaries would be unable to facilitate in the trade. Banning the trading of Russian bonds has been tossed around ever since Trump got elected. Anti-Russian politicians on both sides of the aisle have taken full advantage of Trump being caught in a Russian scandal to force the president to play super-hardball with Vladimir Putin and anyone within a country mile of him. Since taking office, Trump has already signed harsher sanctions against Russian individuals and Russian companies, making some of them extraterritorial. Extraterritorial means sanctions apply to non-U.S. citizens and entities transacting with the sanctioned firm are subject to penalties. BNP Paribas got served with an $8.9 billion sentence in 2015 for violating Iran sanctions. China’s Huawei is currently in hot water for doing the same. Trump is boxed in. If he doesn’t sign new sanctions, he will be made to look like he is favoring Putin. “President Trump’s willful paralysis in the face of Kremlin aggression has reached a boiling point in Congress,” Senator Bob Menendez, the top Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee and a sponsor of the legislation, said in a statement. What exactly that willful paralysis is, Menendez doesn’t mention. Menendez signed onto a resolution by another anti-Russia Democrat in the Senate, Chuck Schumer, last month to keep sanctions on En+Group. The London-listed holding company was majority owned by sanctioned Russian businessman Oleg Deripaska. Sanctions on Deripaska remain, but Schumer and Menendez’s attempt to keep sanctions on En+Group, an important aluminum exporter to Europe, failed last month. The company is no longer facing sanctions as Deripaska complied with the Treasury Department to relinquish majority ownership of the company. The stock price rose over 55% on the news. Russian bonds might rally, but not that much. And they will have to wait until the Senate decides what they are going to do with their latest round of corporate Russia bashing. According to a report by Bloomberg on February 13, Senators like Republican Lindsey Graham want to target new Russian government bond issues. If so, that means Americans would be banned from participating. You can’t buy them. You can’t underwrite them. Other sanctions seem more commercial in nature and impact private companies as much as they do the state-controlled behemoths in the oil and gas space. The Senate wants to sanction individuals and companies from investing in Russian LNG projects outside of Russia. As well as punish the two big state-owned energy plays, Gazprom and Rosneft, for operations overseas. It is unclear what exactly this would entail. The Senate has already made it clear that it is at Treasury’s discretion to fine Gazprom’s partners in Nord Stream II, the new natural gas pipeline being built from Russia into Germany. Meanwhile, Nord Stream II, while not sailing smoothly, is still sailing. “I know the government doesn’t want us to buy new Russian corporate debt,” says Katherine Renfrew, a bond fund manager for TIAA Investments. She co-leads the TIAA-CREF Emerging Market Debt mutual fund. “If they take that second step and say we don’t want you trading in the old issues either ... it’s a bit daunting to think about,” she says. “If you’re an investor in Russia, you definitely don’t need new sanctions. But you don’t need to have exposure to those (sanctioned) bonds and can still (buy) Russia.” The timing of the new sanctions coincided with the annual Munich Security Conference, which ended this weekend. And the meeting of a European Foreign Affairs Committee on Monday. It gives the officials some new official meat to chew on. Despite the tough language from Menendez and maybe even Lindsey Graham, who has made himself more of Trump’s trusty sidekick since the Matt Kavanaugh hearings of last summer, investors are more likely to wait and see what gets put in a final bill. The biggest fear, for now, is that the new sanctions will borrow from the Venezuela playbook, making it illegal to trade in certain bond issues in the secondary market. The secondary market is a market between investors, rather than an investor buying directly from the issuer. Moreover, concerns that Washington will block Russia from U.S. dollar settlements are greatly exaggerated and a threat to the dollar, as Russia could easily make the switch to euros, and Europe, not all that in love with Trump itself, wouldn’t bat an eye if Putin did that. Given that En+Group, the holding company behind aluminum firm Rusal, had sanctions removed following loud outcries from European automakers who were forced to buy Chinese aluminum instead, it is unlikely that systemically important companies in Russia will be punished. In other words, pipelines may get spitballs thrown at them, but that’s about it. On the energy front, if the U.S. makes it legally impossible for American firms to work with or provide some level of funding for Russian oil and gas firms, then they run the risk of Russia banning the Americans from the oil and gas sector there, opening up the door to China. Russian -based Macro Advisory, a big picture investment research firm, says GAZ Group is the entity to watch in the latest round of sanctions. GAZ is an important supplier and subcontractor for foreign companies operating in Russia. The question now is whether Treasury will view this category of company as “exempt” or not. It is also known that the Russian government is actively looking at options, like attracting a new strategic investor. Russia is a very important market for China, but more so for Europe. So far, Russia has been quiet. Finance Minister Anton Siluanov was rather sanguine about the whole thing, saying in a nutshell that they will have to find a way to cope with it. There has been little commentary by other officials, although that may change in the days ahead. “The hope appears to be that the next round will be for the optics rather than economically damaging,” Macro Advisory founder Christopher Weafer wrote in a recently published report. “If damaging sanctions are put in place then an appropriate Russian response will almost certainly be forthcoming.” Russia’s Economic Development Ministry estimated yesterday that the country has lost at least $6 billion due to sanctions and trade restrictions.