Breathtaking seascapes and delicious cuisine have made Southern Italy famous all over the world. The region’s economy is extremely tied to these two categories, relying on tourism, agriculture and the gastronomic industry. The olive oil business is not only a backbone for the local economy but also an important sector nationwide. In fact, Italy is the world’s largest exporter of olive oil, with an average of 400,000 tons sold abroad every year. The country is also the first global consumer, commercializing annually within its borders around 600,000 tons of olive oil. Unfortunately, 2018 will be remembered as probably the worst year for the business, and the crisis will continue all along 2019. Olive oil production has recently fallen by 57%, reaching a peak of 65% in Puglia, the region that traditionally makes up for half of the entire national production. These numbers are so dramatic that put into question Italy’s primacy in the olive oil market. Coldiretti, the national association representing agriculture, has published a study to examine the alarming situation. According to the report, the drop in production is due to climatic reason, like the freezing weather registered in February 2018, and the devastating effect that the Xylella bacteria is having on the olive tree’s fields. The microorganism is killing trees, centuries-old landscapes and the local economy at the same time. Donato Boscia, a phytopathologist of the Italian National Research Council, explained to Euronews that they identified the bacteria for the first time around six years ago, when they first heard of olive trees drying up in the area of Salento, a famous touristic destination which is also home for some of the largest olive tree’s fields in the country. Authorities were immediately informed, but since then the Xylella infected more than 770,000 hectares, causing production to drop to the lowest amount registered in 25 years.    The economic damage is reported to be around €1.2 million ($1.36m) and, at the same time, around a hundred thousand workplaces in the sector are already lost. According to Coldiretti’s data, what is left from last year's production might end by April 2019. Prices have already increased by 31% and the picture is worsened by the rise of imports of foreign and cheaper oil, like the one from Tunisia, which presence in the Italian market has intensified by over 100%. The fall of production and the boost of imports might expose the market to frauds, with a lower quality product labeled as “Made in Italy”. Farmers have teamed up and asked the government in Rome to do what it takes to save the business. The Italian minister for Agriculture, Gian Marco Centinaio, has already announced the state of emergency in the area, but it is now essential for the bureaucracy not to slow down the implementing of the contingency plans. It is not clear yet why it took so long to take action to save olive trees, since the bacteria that caused the majority of the destruction was identified around six years ago. Since then Xylella had time to undermine both nature and business. Now the olive oil sector must rely on the emergency measures and hope it will not be too late by the time they will be put into force. 