Earnings season is rocking, and with that comes the results and forecasts that can make or break a company for its investors (and for analysts.) Despite the headlines that signal the death of retail, or that consumers are tightening their proverbial belts, some companies are presenting evidence to the contrary. Of note and on the radar this season is results related to any and all weather conditions as well as how businesses fared over the holidays. Here are quick recaps of four retail and consumer companies that have earned a spot in the winner’s circle with analysts following their recent results. Deckers Outdoor The maker of the iconic UGG boot reported yet another EPS and revenue beat for the third quarter. On the call, the company said sales in UGG were $761 million, up 3.6% from a year prior. Meanwhile, growth in its UGG Men’s segment rose to a steady clip with its Tasman slipper doubling in volume compared to a year prior. Ahead of the report, Susquehanna analyst Sam Poser and team updated sentiment, writing, “Based on the cold weather this holiday season, improved product segmentation, and the fact that, in our view, the supply of UGG in the marketplace is well below the demand, we are confident that third-quarter 2019 results will exceed guidance." Amazon Amazon reported a fourth-quarter EPS and revenue beat. On its earnings call, the company said, "[the] fourth-quarter in particular was a great quarter for customers that retail, there is a lot of strength in the retail part of the businesses, the teams here had done a great job, planning, preparing and then executing on the quarter. Amazon Web Services maintained a very strong growth rate and continued to deliver for customers." Andrew Lipsman, principal analyst at eMarketer, wrote, “Amazon’s profits continue to soar on the back of strong online holiday sales, which are simultaneously fueling its white-hot ad business. As sellers feel the need to ramp up their Amazon ad spend to drive holiday sales, the margin expansion we’ve been seeing play out over the last several quarters for Amazon only became amplified in the fourth quarter.” Starbucks Coffee Starbucks reported a first-quarter EPS and revenue beat. Among its positives, Starbucks showed record revenue of $6.6 billion, or 9% growth year-over-year alongside “digital momentum” as U.S. rewards members grew 14% to 16.3 million. Starbucks also said it saw a “return of $5.5 billion to shareholders through a combination of dividends and buybacks.” Neil Saunders, Managing Director of GlobalData Retail, wrote that momentum within the U.S. was encouraging. “It is clear to us that a number of the company's initiatives are paying dividends and helping to deliver growth. Foremost among these is the remodeling of many stores to create a more engaging and pleasant experience. From our data, this has increased the amount of time customers linger and has helped to ease up average transaction values. We also believe that the refurbishment is an important step in preventing customers from switching to other brands.” Boot Barn Holdings Unlike the other three, this one is a little outside the box on the earnings front. Boot Barn’s third-quarter results saw in-line EPS and a revenue miss. However, it’s no matter since there appear to be several upsides at Boot Barn, which prides itself in sales of “cowboy boots, western wear and more.” Oliver Chen and team at Cowen & Company nave noted it for its “un-Amazonable qualities.” The team wrote, “Boot Barn exhibits one of the most compelling EPS growth algorithms in our stock coverage universe as the retailer expertly grows top- line and expands margins. We have confidence in Boot Barn's ability to maintain its long-term 20% EPS growth algorithm driven by 10% annual new unit growth, low-single to mid-single digit comp growth...Further, we are encouraged by Boot Barn’s resilient comp growth of 9.2% in third-quarter 2019, despite a more challenged backdrop in Texas and the oil patch as oil prices fell.”