On December 31, 2019, the existing long-term Russian-Ukrainian gas contracts and Gazprom’s deadline for completion of two bypass pipelines, Nord Stream Two and TurkStream both expire. The double deadline is intended by Moscow to maximize its pressure on Kiev either to lose all transit and revenues from it or accept Russian terms for using Ukrainian pipelines as a residual, backup option. The Russians want to prolong the existing transit contract, signed in 2009 on Gazprom’s terms.  The Ukrainian side wants the next meeting at this level to be held in March. The Russian side wants to wait until May or June with the next meeting, in the hope that Ukraine’s presidential election in March could bring to power a more M0scow-friendly leadership than the incumbent one. Changing mood music Russian President Vladimir Putin said on January 17 that it may, after all, be “possible to continue the gas transit via Ukraine [to Europe] even after both Nord Streams and TurkStreams are used to their full capacities.”    Moscow seems to be hedging against delays to the completion of Nord Stream II, thus necessitating a contract for Ukrainian transit to take effect on January 1, 2020. Moscow is clearly aware of the growing odds that Nord Stream II and the overland branches of TurkStream II might be further delayed by the European Commission’s efforts to bring that project under EU market legislation and by the warnings of sanctions by the US on companies involved in Nord Stream II. Talks ongoing In January Russia and Ukraine held ministerial-level talks in Brussels on the transit of Russian natural gas to Europe via Ukraine.  The European Commission was slated as a neutral mediator, impartially seeking to apply the EU’s legislation to the transit of Russian gas via Ukraine to the EU, in the interest of market competition and supply security for Europe.  Ukraine needs the protection of EU legislation against Russian interventions in Ukraine’s natural gas sector, particularly its transit system. Other options But maybe Kiev can resolve its Russian gas issue differently, by reducing natural gas consumption, President Petro Poroshenko said. The ousting of Ukrainian firms from the Russian market started not in 2014 but in 2009, Poroshenko said recently. Ukraine has since then paid an inflated price for gas consumed and undertook to buy 52 billion cubic meters of gas from Russia annually, regardless of its consumption volumes. Ukraine will be able to refuse from imported gas in the next five years thanks to the opening of access to Ukrainian mineral resources, Prime Minister Volodymyr Groysman said. To the polls Ukraine goes to the polls in March, five years on from Euromaidan, and the resulting Russia invasion. The country remains bitterly divided between pro and anti-Europeans, but this will be the first election not to feature a powerful, pro-Russian force amongst the frontrunners. 