Light My Fire of Sweden (LMF) specializes in versatile, innovative outdoor accessories useful for making fires, storing food and drink and eating meals, whether on family picnics or in the wilderness. Plastic has long been identified as a problem from its origin in crude oil to its eventual destination in polluting the natural world. Following two years of intensive research and development, as of this year, LMF’s entire product line has transitioned to bio-based plastics. Derived from renewable crops including corn, sugar cane and tree cellulose, bio-based plastics provide a way to effectively bypass the oil industry while providing a product with properties like conventional plastic. Calill Odqvist Jagusch, LMF's CEO, said, “By experimenting with various bio-based plastics, we’ve found a solution that meets our sustainability objectives while not compromising on our product’s functionality and durability.” Bio-based plastics are still in their infancy and, as it wants to share its knowledge, it has a fully transparent overview of all product materials and suppliers in ‘Let’s Talk Materials’. In 2017, LMF decided to be one of the first companies to stop waiting for demand to grow and take the initiative in production. In a feature in Suston magazine, Odqvist Jagusch has been quoted as saying, In addition to making its entire product line 100% bio-based, this year, LMF will also set its sights on single-use packaging by exchanging the packaging of several products with secondary purpose bags - CircBags. As well as their reusability, CircBags are themselves sustainably designed using recycled material; currently, RePET, made from recycled water bottles. Initially intended to replace its plastic packaging, LMF also quickly realized it had a useful product so they will also be available for purchase, representing another step in the brand’s journey to be a more sustainable company. Time and again, it is members of the Scandinavian Outdoor Group (SOG) who take a practical lead in not only raising supply chain sustainability issues but also tackling them head-on. The SOG was established in 2000 and currently has 67 member companies representing outdoor brands from the Nordic countries. I asked its General Secretary Sara Wänseth why its members are so pro-active. She told me, 