Saudi Aramco dropped a bombshell this week that could transform the oil market. A short Financial Times news report revealed that the Saudi national oil company is building an oil trading unit in London and intends to become one of the top three oil traders in the world. This raises all sorts of questions and issues, because Aramco and the Saudi oil ministry, while distinct, have close connections. On top of this, the Saudis are the dominant player in OPEC. Aramco's information advantage could be excessive. It is not unusual for commodities producers to trade the commodities they produce, because they know the field and it's a good way to hedge. Soybean farmers trade soybeans, metals miners trade metals and oil producers trade oil. And it's not just oil companies that can trade oil. Observers have long assumed that elements within OPEC governments might trade oil at times too. It would be too hard to avoid the temptation of cashing in on the advance knowledge.    When OPEC meets, especially at its ordinary meetings every six months, the market often reacts to OPEC's announcement of action or inaction. It is not unreasonable to assume that at some points in the last 40 years, OPEC member countries have sent word to their own traders to act based on upcoming action before the general market is aware. Now, with smart phones, it is easy to see how the direction to trade could be given right from the OPEC secretariat in Vienna in the midst of a meeting. Similarly, oil producing countries (like oil companies) could trade based on information in their own territories before that information is public.  Now Aramco wants to become a top three oil trader, trading as much as 6 million barrels per day of crude oil and refined products. Aramco could have a huge advantage if it does not set its own limits. Aramco and the Saudi oil ministry are separate institutions, but they have many connections. Former Aramco personnel work in the ministry, including a former Aramco CEO who is the current oil minister and still serves on Aramco's board of directors. Will the market be confident that the Saudi oil ministry won't give Aramco traders advance notice when Aramco's trading arm is the third largest in the world? The market might want to know how this is going to work. Commodities trading does not fall under the same trading laws and regulations as securities trading, but in the US the government is starting to look at behavior in commodities trading that is similar to insider trading of equities. The U.S. regulator for commodities trading is the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). In the last few years, it has begun to pursue cases similar to the concept of equity insider trading. It appears that the crucial element for such a case in the commodities market may be whether the party "misappropriated" information. Misappropriated information is information that a party uses against its obligation to another party or body. For example, in the scenario at hand, if the Saudi oil ministry has a duty to OPEC to keep information confidential but shares that information with Aramco for trading purposes, it could be deemed to have misappropriated that information. However, it is not clear if the CFTC would recognize an implicit duty to confidentiality within OPEC, because the organization is an international cartel of sovereign nations. There is a simple solution to provide some assurance to the market that OPEC members (including the Saudi oil ministry and Aramco) will refrain from trading on information before it is publicly released: reassure the public that there exists an explicit duty to keep that information confidential. OPEC could announce publicly that member nations and their representatives have a duty to keep OPEC information confidential and refrain from trading on it until it is made public. That would give regulators in various countries a clear idea of when OPEC members are permitted to trade. 