The month of April, in particular, could prove a critical inflection point for the direction of the market. Members of the OPEC cartel gather that month to consider whether to proceed with production cuts and the Trump administration makes critical decisions about U.S. sanctions on Iran’s oil sector – and perhaps Venezuela’s too. Such decisions will have to be made as oil demand is boosted by the end of spring maintenance at global refineries and industry ramps up to prepare for the peak summer driving season. The global economic threat of the U.S.-China trade war continues and negotiations between the world’s top two economic powers will remain in the news in the coming weeks. The outcome of those talks could have a significant impact on oil demand. Trump meanwhile is in full re-election mode and the polls will motivated his decisions. The president made that clear Monday when he complained on social media that oil prices were moving too high. “Oil prices getting too high,” Trump warned on Twitter. “OPEC please relax and take it easy. World cannot take a price hike – fragile!” It’s not the first time President Trump has criticized OPEC for rising oil prices. In the past, though, he reacted when the price of international benchmark Brent topped roughly $70 a barrel. When the president took aim at OPEC on Monday, the price of oil stood at $67 a barrel. His impatience is clearly growing as the 2020 elections draw near. The decisions made at OPEC’s meeting in Vienna and by the Trump administration in Washington will tell us much about where oil prices are headed in 2019. Surprises are always possible on both the supply and demand side of the market. OPEC, led by Saudi Arabia, and Trump are now at the center of the action in oil markets. The big question is whether they share the same interests and can find common ground as they make decisions affecting the global economy in the coming months? OPEC’s deal with Russia to reduce output by 1.2 million barrels a day has been effective, bringing oil prices back from a low of less than $50 a barrel in late December. Saudi Arabia, which has borne the brunt of the cuts, estimates global supply and demand could be back in balance by April. Russia, on the other hand, contends oil markets are already in balance and seeks to loosen the taps. As evidence, they point to the price drop in the fourth quarter of last year caused by an oversupplied market. Riyadh is already lobbying to extend the supply cut through the end of this year. The Saudis worry record U.S. oil production that recently surpassed 12 million barrels a day, along with growing trade tensions and a potential economic slowdown will dampen demand. Saudi Arabia wants to avoid another price plunge. The kingdom needs oil prices to be between $75 and $80 to balance its budget. An extension of the production cuts would likely push oil prices higher, which, based on his tweets, is not what President Trump wants to see. Trump has some influence on the market, too. The White House must decide by May 5 whether to extend waivers to Iran sanctions. Despite promises to force Iran’s oil exports to zero, Trump issued waivers in early November to avoid a price spike, which reached as high as $85 a barrel in October. Trump’s reversal surprised markets and accelerated the late 2018 price drop. The waivers left about 1 million barrels a day of Iranian crude exports on the market, down from 2.5 million barrels a day before Trump withdrew from the Iran nuclear deal. How the President handles the waiver question will have a major impact on the oil markets. If Trump moves to reduce Iranian oil sales further and OPEC extends its production cuts, the market could tighten quickly with demand overtaking supply by summer. Another option for President Trump would be to strike a bargain with Saudi Arabia with the promise to take out more Iranian oil sales in exchange for OPEC forgoing further supply cuts. The White House could also cut off supply from the market by tightening the screws on Venezuela. The political crisis in Venezuela is turning into a stalemate with Nicolas Maduro showing no sign of stepping down despite foreign pressure. Trump has effectively banned U.S. importation of Venezuelan oil, removing the top buyer of Venezuela’s oil from the market. The White House has also hit the state-owned Petroleos de Venezuela (PDVSA) hard with sanctions, but it has so far withheld a second round of tougher sanctions against the foreign companies and traders that continue to do business with PDVSA. Such measures could further accelerate the slowdown of Venezuela’s oil production, which has dropped to around 1 million barrels a day. A second round of sanctions, which is looking more likely every day as violence increases, could reduce volumes to about 500,000 barrels a day. This would increase pressure on Maduro while allowing the other members of OPEC, including Saudi Arabia, to continue to produce. Much hinges on where oil prices sit in April. President Trump would be wise to keep close contact with Riyadh to avoid spring surprises in the oil markets.