Few would disagree there is distress in U.S. shale oil sector, many would vouch for the tenacity of the independents, and almost everyone would agree that the uptick in crude production stateside courtesy shale has visibly altered the market dynamic at least over the short term. But exaggerated rhetoric often awards shale players the status of swing producers, something they do not merit. For in a classic sense, the world's only swing producer is Saudi Arabia, and it remains so, given that its state-owned oil company Saudi Aramco can alter conventional production levels almost at will. On the other hand, U.S. shale exploration is driven by the spirit of private enterprise and ingenuity, which means production cannot be altered at will, not just operationally but also due to its unconventional exploration dynamic. Given that context, BP (LON:BP) Chief Executive Bob Dudley ruffled a few industry feathers by describing the U.S. shale oil sector as a "market without a brain" that quite unlike Saudi Arabia, responds only to market sentiment. Speaking at the International Petroleum Week (IPWeek) in London, Dudley said: "The U.S. is the only country that completely responds to market signals, like a market without a brain. It just responds to price signals. "Unlike Saudi Arabia and Russia, which adjust their output in response to gluts or shortages in oil supplies, the U.S. shale market responds purely to oil prices." The comments came as U.S. production surged to a record high of 12 million barrels per day (bpd), according to latest Energy Information Administration data, and less than a year after Dudley's own company bought shale assets stateside from BHP (LON:BHP) in a mammoth $10.5 billion deal. While BP's deep pockets protect that investment and the oil and gas major is expected to make a better fist of it than BHP by many commentators, problems in the wider U.S. shale industry cannot be masked. According to Rystad Energy's examination of the 33 largest public shale exploration and production (E&P) companies in the U.S. representing 39% of US shale production, most are struggling to please equity investors and reduce debt simultaneously. The Oslo, Norway-headquartered research firm's senior analyst Alisa Lukash says pleasing equity investors and reducing leverage ratios simultaneously is a delicate task. "Despite a significant deleverage last year, estimated 2019 free cash flow barely covers operator obligations, putting E&Ps on thin ice as future dividend payments remain in question." In fact, indebted shale E&Ps spent the second half of 2018 reducing their leverage ratios rather than focusing on dividends. While investor returns are lacking, increases in the Permian and Bakken shale plays have kept crude prices in check, and forced OPEC to tie-up with Russia in its bid to support prices and avert a glut. So in other words, Dudley is right in implying that U.S. shale operators are price sensitive buffer producers of the global supply pool. Furthermore, the BP boss added that a $50-70 oil price range can work for consumers and producers alike, and that an oil supply gap is not imminent. That's because investor returns or not, high distress or low-level pain, $35-plus crude prices can keep many, especially those with viable U.S. shale acreages, in the game. That game is likely to continue till natural rates of decline – pegged in a 5 to 7 year-range – kick-in.