Oil majors ExxonMobil XOM +0% Right now, the Permian Basin is producing about 4 million barrels per day of oil. For comparison, this is more than any single member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) is currently producing except for Saudi Arabia and Iraq . The United States is currently the world's largest oil producer, recording 11.85 million barrels per day in December 2018, according to the EIA. This just edged out Russia, which produced 11.16 million barrels per day. Record oil production has been a boon for the U.S. economy. Oil exports have also increased, as have the number of countries now importing U.S. oil and oil products. However, the story is not just one of growing production, more trade and lower energy costs for Americans. Just as U.S. production is forecast to grow to 13.2 million barrels per day in 2020, global demand for oil is expected to grow at a slower rate. Three of the major oil forecasting agencies, OPEC, the IEA and the EIA recently lowered their demand growth forecasts by as much as 60,000 barrels per day. These are driven by growing indications that global economic growth is slowing in 2019 and we may face a recession as soon as 2020. China, which has been a major oil consumer is also seeing waning economic growth and has already lowered its own growth forecasts for this year. Exxon and Chevron don't appear phased by these troubling demand forecasts and indicators, perhaps because if faltering demand does start to impact producers in the Permian, those two companies will still have a leg up over the smaller and highly leveraged fracking companies. Growing production in the Permian will also exacerbate current issues of crude quality. The Permian produces light crude oil, a type which is oversupplied on the market today. Heavier crude oils, like the ones produced in the Venezuelan and Canadian tar sands, are in much shorter supply. Many refineries around the globe are not designed to run optimally on just light crude oil and need a mix of heavy and light crudes. This could mean that as oil production from the Permian grows and demand growth drops, U.S. oil will have an increasingly harder time finding customers on the global market. 