Much of the focus of this year’s IP Week in London has been on what role the oil and gas sector will play in the future energy mix. But for Saudi Aramco and their president and CEO Amin H Nasser, it was more about how the continued poor perception of the sector could hamper its ability to innovate and deliver the resources that the world will continue to need for some time. Nasser was at pains to explain that the industry should be proud of the crucial and sustained contribution to the global economy and people’s lives, around the world, day after day for over a century. Two billion more people today have access to ample, affordable, and reliable sources of energy than even just a generation ago. It has lifted them out of poverty, enabling them to enjoy the essentials of modern life that people in developed countries take for granted. “The scale required to achieve this is equally staggering and inspiring. Last year alone, oil and liquids demand hit 100 million barrels per day for the first time in history,” he said. “And once again this industry rose to meet that demand – affordably and reliably. “Despite this historic success, there is a worrying and growing belief among policymakers and regulators, investment houses, NGOs, and many others that we are an industry with little or no future. A recent survey revealed that the energy sector faces greater reputational challenges than any other.” Don’t believe the hype Nasser recounted a tale from his recent trip to the Davos conference. One senior financial figure he spoke to confidently predicted the end of the industry in about five years. Another was slightly less pessimistic – but he speculated that most vehicles on the road would be electric in five to ten years when today they account for less than half a percent. “In other words, important stakeholders believe that the entire world will soon run on anything, but oil,” he said He argued that these views are not based on logic and facts and are formed mostly in response to pressure and hype. “But they are sincerely held,” he warned. “And our stakeholders are clearly tuning out. They are not hearing us when we say that passenger vehicles are only 20% of the world’s oil demand. Or that the remaining 80 percent is used by sectors like planes, ships, trucks, petrochemicals, and lubes for which there is no alternative yet and where demand for oil is expected to increase substantially. “They do not recognize a world where alternatives such as solar and wind, although growing rapidly, still account for just two percent of primary energy demand today. There is very little thought given to the massive global energy infrastructure that would need to be transformed in every corner of the world, costing trillions of dollars, bearing in mind under-developed countries that cannot afford expensive technologies. And people gloss over the reality that today, in many countries, more electric vehicles means more coal-powered vehicles.” Flying in the face of facts In fact, in some of the world’s most populated countries, up to three-quarters of electricity is generated by coal. “In other words, my encounters in Davos showed me that fewer and fewer of our stakeholders accept logic and facts, least of all from us,” he continued. “We are therefore facing what I would call a crisis of perception. With multiple stakeholders. “And because it threatens our industry’s very relevance, it puts our ability to supply ample, reliable, and affordable energy to billions around the world at risk, which in turn risks their energy security. Only recently, we saw what a supply deficit of a couple of million barrels per day could do to the oil market. Imagine what 20 million barrels fewer per day would do – which would be the shortfall in five years if investments stopped today. “And the impact would be even more profound for economies, societies, and people if demand continues to grow over the next five years, as we expect. Ironically, higher oil prices would cause much less pain to us than most. But they would only reinforce the perception that many have of our industry as profiteering, and it would certainly not be in anyone’s long-term interests. So how do we deal with this perception crisis?” Five-point plan Nasser pointed to five areas that demand urgent, collective effort. First to articulate a future for the industry that shows it clearly understands society’s expectations and share their concerns. Second, it needs to show society that it truly embraces our social responsibilities. Third, continue to innovate and develop the technology that has been the key to the industry’s regular reinventions. Fourth, when it comes to attracting investment, facts and logic are more important than ever. And finally, the industry needs to change the way it connects. “Our industry faces a crisis of perception with multiple stakeholders,” he added. “Our traditional qualities of ample, reliable, and affordable supply are not enough to meet society’s expectations today. We need action on multiple fronts if that Davos speculation is not to come true. “We need to lighten the carbon footprint of our fuel products further – and do so fast. We need to be trusted globally and locally as a sustainable, ethical, and transparent industry that is genuinely willing to engage, listen and change as needed. We need to show millennials that we are as innovative as Apple, Google, or Samsung, and are determined to use cutting-edge technology to make the world a better place. “We need to help our stakeholders realize that all energy sources will be required for decades to come and that a long-term investment in our industry is both wise and profitable to deliver on that demand growth. “And we need to speak in a way that puts real progress and people first, connecting our business with the essentials of modern life. This radical new mission is the defining challenge for this industry. It is up there with a manned mission to Mars and just as profound for the Earth. “Let’s apply all our resources – particularly the pioneering and resilient spirit that defines this great industry – to define and support this new mission. And let’s amaze the world with our continued relevance to human progress in the 21st century and beyond.”