The oil and gas sector is awash with digital transformations as they strive to increase operational efficiency to mitigate against the risk of volatile oil prices. However, there is one sector of the exploration and production value chain that is an old hand at these technologies, that is the seismic surveys that are so crucial to planning successful drilling campaigns. That is not to say that the sector is not still evolving and embracing the new opportunities presented by the availability of greater computing power, visualization technologies, and artificial intelligence. Moreover, in the case of French oil major, Total, the application from the burgeoning area of unmanned aerial systems, or drones. A digital transformation At the recent BHGE Technology Conference Arnaud Breuillac, president exploration & production and member of the executive committee at Total outlined the company’s strategy to digital transformation and particularly the early seismic work. “All through the industry's and company's history, the techniques required to achieve our main goal of providing energy have continuously evolved,” he said. “The way we work now bears little resemblance to what we used to do a few decades ago in terms of sub-surface knowledge and understanding, and in terms of potential performance including health, safety, and the environment. Starting at the source “Let me start at the beginning of the cycle of our industry, and by this I mean seismic. Seismic acquisition and competition are at the core of our business. In Total, we’ve launched two projects in this area METIS and GAIA.” METIS aims to improve the quality and speed of data acquisition through real-time quality control and processing, while at the same time slashing both the cost and HSE risks of operations. The ultimate purpose is to be able to build ever more predictive 3D models for our interpreters. The goal is to develop within ten years an integrated geophysical and logistics system to acquire, process and obtain in real time quality structural and quantitative data. This innovative approach should eventually multiply the value of information (VoI) of the data acquired in complex topography, enabling us to optimize field development, secure new exploration licenses or rejuvenate the interest of acreage relinquished in the past because of an inability to understand it. The new acquisition method, known as carpet recording, carpets the ground in the exploration area with DART wireless geophysical sensors — which are, as their name suggests, dart-shaped. The drone fleet can safely drop up to 400 receivers per square kilometer. “Thanks to the success of METIS, we'll be able to decrease the cost of offshore seismic significantly, even in conventional terrain, like for example in the Middle East, increase the quality of the seismic image significantly and third, avoid damage to the environment,” Breuillac added. “Once the acquisition is performed, seismic data is processed using a high-performance computer.” Making sense of the data When it comes to the interpretation of seismic data Total, have embarked on the Geoscience Artificial Images Applications (GAIA) project. The objective of this programme carried out in collaboration with Google is to allow them to be more efficient within Geoscience teams. “Today, a geoscientist spends a large part of his time gathering data, sorting and pre-processioning information,” Breuillac continued. “We choose Google for the partnership because they are the forefront of the AI, and also because they were open to joint development of the solution. “The goal is to delegate repetitive, low-value tasks to a virtual assistant, which thanks to artificial intelligence will accelerate seismic interpretation and the search for crucial information so as our specialists can focus on the valuable tasks. This has two potential benefits. One is to shorten, and we believe that that can be reduced by 20% in the short term and possibly by a factor of two to three in the future. “The other benefit of AI is to improve the reliability and the quality of our evaluations. The partnership, launched in 2018, comprises of testing over two years of how a machine can be taught to process tasks. We are confident that this solution will be implemented this year in our in-house software application, Sysmerge.” It's good to partner Aside from the obvious benefits the projects both highlight the value that can be gained from the new age of partnerships in the sector. METIS is being developed in collaboration with two U.S. companies, Geokinetics, an integrated services company, and Wireless Seismic, an equipment manufacturer, while Google is partnering in GAIA. Look for the growth in wide-ranging partnerships in the sector over the coming years as the oil and gas industry pulls in the required digital expertise and experience to remain competitive.