A debt-fueled crisis is headed to Dubai, the trading hub of the United Arab Emirates. A decade ago the city-state suffered a near-calamity during the global financial crisis. At the time Dubai needed a massive bailout, which was provided by the National Bank of Abu Dhabi (located in UAE's capital Abu Dhabi) along with the UAE's central bank, according to Reuters. This bailout was intended to calm investors who were uneasy about the fact that some of Dubai's government-related entities (GRE) had started defaulting on debts. Those investors had assumed that the GRE's were all guaranteed by Dubai. In other words, investors thought they'd get their money back from the government if the GREs failed. (Keen market observers may recall that during the financial crisis the U.S government also bailed out two of its government-sponsored enterprises that helped support the mortgage market: Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.) Fast forward, and now the loans made to Dubai are coming due, so Abu Dhabi's government and the UAE's central bank have agreed to extend the loans on the $20 billion debts for another five years. Unfortunately, the loan rejiggering doesn't solve Dubai's problem. There is still another lingering bill which totals approximately half the value Dubai's entire economy. "Dubai's GRE debt amounts to $60bn, equal to 50% of Dubai's GDP and around half of this is due to mature in the next three years," the Capital Economics report states. In other words, the GRE's have a bill of around $30 billion coming due in the next 36 months. And it gets worse. The problem is that while the loan rollover will provide a safety net if the GREs run into financial trouble, it does absolutely nothing to fix the underlying problem of a weakening economy in Dubai brought on by softer oil prices, and a likely collapse in the real estate market due to overbuilding. All of that puts a damper on businesses in Dubai including the GREs, which may find it hard to pay the interest on the outstanding loans or refinance those debts. An Oil-related Slide Despite Dubai's diversification away from oil over the past few decades, the entire region is still dependent on energy revenues. The fall in prices for crude oil over the past half decade have squeezed Gulf governments and private enterprises alike. Brent crude oil, the European benchmark, fetched more than $100 a barrel in mid-2014 versus around $65 recently, according to data from media company Bloomberg. The slowdown in global trade hasn't helped Dubai either. In a similar way to Singapore and Hong Kong in the far east, Dubai has set itself up as a trading hub in the Gulf, benefiting from the flow in international trade. However, the recent slump in trade, combined with growing protectionism means that the city's business will suffer. In turn, the softening business environment will hurt the ability of the GREs to service their debts. That could possibly lead to the government being on the hook for the cash once again if those GREs can't pay or can't refinance their debts. Already the local stock market is showing signs of investor fears about the future. The Dubai Financial Market General Index, which tracks a few dozen locally listed stocks, has lost almost half its value over the past half-decade. The index was recently trading at 2,683, down 49% from 5,302 in May 2014, according to Bloomberg. "The backdrop of weak growth across the Gulf and the risk of overcapacity after the 2020 World Expo means that the GRE's revenues could be weaker-than-expected, harming their ability to service these debts," the Capital Economics report continues. In other words, unless something changes to help Dubai's economy, the debt problems could sink the city.