When valuing energy companies the terminology used is often somewhat obscure versus the key concepts learned in basic securities analysis. PUD, PDP, EBITDAX and MMBOEPD are often used to indicate the value of productive reserves and the cash flow derived from those reserves. Actually, though, energy companies can be valued using the same methodology as companies in other industries. This is a much more common acronym--UPC--meaning units, price and cost. This is the tried and true method used by Fidelity to value companies in a variety of different industries, and it is certainly applicable to oil and gas companies, especially for credit analysis. Chesapeake shares have rallied nearly 10% in morning trading, as fourth quarter results easily beat Street estimates. What was striking to me, though, wasn’t the bottom line, but the first page of the financial section of Chesapeake's results presentation. Chesapeake management chose to highlight a measure of operating margin as opposed to focusing on gross production figures or in-house estimates for future commodity prices. Chesapeake is an energy company, so the nomenclature is never simple, but management's choice to display a graphic on Adjusted EBITDA/BOE was a telling one. After generating $10.83 in EBITDA per barrel of oil equivalent produced in 2017, Chesapeake was able to extract $12.83 in EBITDA/BOE in 2018 and, even more importantly, expects that figure to increase to $14.50 for calendar year 2019. Chesapeake's portfolio is heavily weighted toward production of natural gas and natural gas liquids--82% of production in 1Q18--although oil’s weighting in Chesapeake's production mix is expected to increase to 26% by year-end with the addition of Wildhorse Resources, a South Texas operator Chesapeake acquired last year. So, even without the upside that comes with a potential for a boom in oil prices, Chesapeake has been able to improve margins by focusing on cost. That will be the key driver of energy industry returns in 2019 and I will revisit it in future Forbes columns. The markets, especially the equity markets, tend to be laser-focused on the commodity price on a macro level and the volume of production on a micro level. Drill, baby drill is what got the U.S. energy industry into trouble in 2014, however, and production now is much higher than it was at the last peak. In fact this week's EIA Weekly Petroleum Status Report showed the U.S produced 12.1 million barrels per day of last week, an all-time record. So, front-month oil futures contracts will continue to fluctuate based on rumors about OPEC and front-month natural gas prices will fluctuate based on incredibly inaccurate forecasts for the weather, especially in the Northeast. Those factors are unlikely to change, but when the fundamentals diverge from the conventional wisdom, buying opportunities arise. I think the focus on margin optimization by Chesapeake and its peers make this group too cheap to ignore. After a horrible 2018 (total return of -18.1%), and a lackluster 2017 (-1.0%), energy stocks--as measured by performance of the Energy Select SPDR, XLE--have outperformed the S&P 500 thus far in 2019. XLE has risen 15.5% versus the 11.6% gain in the overall market, and I believe that outperformance will continue. Veteran equity traders might put the energy group’s recent rally down to "every dog has its day,” but I believe the industry's focus on profitability--not the machinations in Saudi Arabia or political turmoil in Venezuela--will continue to drive above-market returns for the energy group for the balance of 2019. 