An impromptu trip to Oslo's Katapult Future Fest last year was my first visit to Norway's charming capital. I was lucky with the weather – bright sunshine and unseasonable levels of warmth meant that a dip in the (still icy cold) harbour sea was an option. But even if it hadn't been so hot, I could tell it was a place I would want to spend time in again. Oslo – which has been named the European green capital of the year for 2019 –is a great mix of chic but fun, dynamic, yet still relaxed (people aren’t known to be at their desks after 5pm). And, adding to its green credentials, its downtown area has recently become almost completely car-free thanks to a bike scheme and the replacement of parking spaces with bike racks. It's a London cyclist's dream basically.  Anyway, you get the idea, Oslo’s a great place to live. But it’s also not going unnoticed by startups as a good place to set up a business. Norway is starting to put a lot of effort into attracting tech businesses in an effort to wean its economy away from oil and gas, a cornerstone of the nation’s economy for so long. And those efforts are starting to show.    According to The Nordic Web, a website analysing investment in the Nordic region, there was a total of 67 private investments made into Norwegian tech startups in the first half of 2018 and this was a 76.3% increase on the same time in 2017. This is a significant change from 2014 when just 9 investments were made. Norway is “comfortably outperforming every other Nordic country in terms of the rate of growth”, the Nordic Web report states.  Trond Riiber Knudsen is founder and CEO of TRK Group AS, an Oslo-based investment and advisory firm that works in digital transformation, disruptive technologies and emerging African markets. He says the interest in focusing on smaller technology businesses came first after the global crash in 2008 and then after the oil price shock that affected Norway in 2014. “Norway is so dependent on oil and gas that the price drop was a massive shock,” he says. “I think it was a big wake up call for people in Norway… my role has been to try to help in the transition from being a very oil and gas-dependent country to creating the foundation for a longer-term plan based on the competitiveness of new technologies.” He adds however that the country does not have a lot of experience yet with building venture capital funds that will support technology companies. It's something he is working on with his firm. “My company works closely with the largest corporations here to help give them an incentive to start to invest into startups or to offer contracts to startups.” He is also engaging Norway’s wealthy shipping families and the government. Knudsen and his team work with around 280 startups in a year, he says.  There are some drawbacks to launching a business in Oslo compared to other European cities. It's no secret that it has a high cost of living, for example, and those aforementioned low working hours could clash with the expectations of startups that need to get things done quickly, even if it means working late to a deadline.  Thomas Vogt and Kim Abrahamsen are the co-founders of Triwer, a Norwegian startup developing a platform for sharing courier and parcel deliveries, they say there are both benefits and challenges to being based in Oslo.  “Norway is a really small country, so markets here are niche and can be competitive to break in to... there are a lot of people doing some of the same things. On the other hand, because it is small, you know everyone. To reach someone in Norway you probably only need to go through one or two contacts.” “Other benefits are that it is a safe country, there is a lot of transparency and there are a lot of well-educated people. The university has a large tech institution where you can test products,” Vogt added, referencing the University of Oslo’s accelerator. Knudsen agrees that the universities and young people’s ambitions are key to changing Norway’s image as a tech hub. “While we expect oil and gas to continue to be an important part of the Norwegian economy for the next 40-50 years...students today are not planning on going into oil and gas. They want to work in other fields within technology and startups."  Perhaps Oslo's kudos when it comes to sustainability and its population's desire to save the environment will only help encourage that change too.  