After the price for gasoline at the pump had risen over much of the first month of this year, I published a piece in late January detailing seven key factors that go into determining what those prices will be in the United States. Given that gas prices have gone up again in the past two weeks after the first half of February was relatively stable, now is a good time to discuss the reasons why that has taken place. There are three main reasons for this recent uptick of 13-15 cents per gallon across the country, as follows: The deteriorating situation in Venezuela - That late January piece in part had this to say about the possible impact on U.S. gas prices due to the looming collapse of the Maduro regime: "Venezuela has been a fairly significant exporter to the U.S. but its volumes have steadily fallen in recent years as its economy has collapsed. U.S. refiners will have to find another source of crude to replace the lost Venezuelan volumes, and to the extent they must pay higher prices to obtain that feedstock, the higher costs will be passed through to the consumer." This appears to have impacted gas prices to some extent, although no one really seems to have a good handle on how much of the recent price climb is attributable to Venezuela. Routine refinery maintenance season has begun. - Late February is typically the time of year when many refiners begin taking their facilities temporarily offline for routine maintenance purposes. Refineries are very complex facilities with a high number of moving parts that operate under high temperatures and pressures, in good weather and bad. All of these factors and more require require that the facilities be shut down for a few weeks once or twice each year for routine maintenance. The weeks leading up to April are a popular time of year for this to take place because late March through mid-April is the period of time each year when most refiners are required by the EPA to make the changeover from producing "winter blends" of gasolines to the far more numerous "summer blends", a process the January piece also discussed in detail. With a higher percentage of refineries than usual shut-in, gasoline transportation costs typically rise and are passed onto consumers. The price for crude oil has gone up. - The whole purpose of the refining process is to break crude oil down into its component parts, including the gasoline and diesel we purchase at the pump. Because of this reality, the price of gas tends to fluctuate in direct relation to the price of crude. Between Feb. 12 and Feb. 27, the price for West Texas Intermediate rose from about $52.50 per barrel to over $57, or about nine percent. Thus, it should come as no surprise to anyone that the price for gasoline rose by a similar, though slightly lower percentage over the same two weeks. Barring a sudden drop in crude prices, U.S. consumers should expect gasoline prices to continue to rise slowly throughout March and April , as the changeover to producing summer blends takes place and people begin getting out and driving more as the weather gets warmer. This is something that happens every year. Bottom line: Gasoline prices are determined by a variety of easily-understood market factors that impact feed stock costs, refining costs and transportation costs, all of which end up being passed along to consumers. There is no grand conspiracy among "big oil" companies to increase the cost of gasoline at the pump . If such a conspiracy existed, gasoline today would not be cheaper on an inflation-adjusted basis than it was in 2009, 1981, 1947 or 1931. Or put another way, if there is some grand conspiracy, it's been a miserable failure. 