Don’t blame the Russians for Nicolas Maduro’s perseverance in Venezuela. Venezuela’s National Assembly president and opposition leader Juan Guaido said he did not see any signs of “broad support” from Russia in propping up strongman Maduro, he told Russian daily Novaya Gazeta on Tuesday. “There have been no new loans, no major investments. Just public statements,” he said. “I do not see broad support for Maduro. I believe that there is respectful participation of Russia in regards to watching the fate of our country, but the same goes for other countries that are paying attention here,” he told the paper. Russia has been a big investor in Venezuelan oil and gas. It has failed to save PdVSA from defaulting on all of its bond issues except the 2020 bond. Rosneft, a Russian state-controlled oil company, has provided some debt relief to Maduro’s government by taking an equity stake in Citgo, the refinery and gasoline station owned by PdVSA in the United States. China has also provided financial aid in return for payments in crude oil. Despite support by two of the largest emerging markets in the world, Venezuela’s oil production has continued to deteriorate. The situation will get worse seeing how Washington slapped PdVSA with sanctions two weeks ago. After April 28, PdVSA will be banned from selling crude oil to the U.S. Current sales cannot be repatriated back to Venezuela. Revenues from crude oil sales to American buyers has to be kept in blocked PdVSA accounts in the U.S. due to sanctions. Washington said sanctions on Venezuelan crude, the leading source of income for the government, will only be lifted in the event of new elections. Washington considers Guaido president of Venezuela. Some 50 other countries have also thrown their support behind Guaido instead of Maduro. According to Guaido, Maduro has failed to protect foreign investors in Venezuela. Venezuela has been a Russian money pit for the last three years. Guaido has gone on the record in the past saying that an eventual new government would honor its obligations to Russians. While Vladimir Putin has been mum on this past weekend’s humanitarian delivery disaster, higher level Russian diplomats are not mincing words on the matter. To them, the official view from the Kremlin is that Venezuela is the victim of another Washington-provoked regime change. Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov reportedly said in the Kommersant business daily during a meeting with his Venezuelan counterpart Ivan Gil that Moscow would “do everything” to support the “legitimate government” of President Maduro. Russians have sent private military contractors into Caracas to work as security for the Socialists United leader. But it seems pretty clear to most that the real muscle surrounding Maduro comes from Havana. Maduro is a Cuba loyalist, having been indoctrinated into Castro anti-Americanism in the 1980s. Maduro was sworn into a second six-year term on January 10. Despite claims of illegitimacy, starting with a group of Catholic Bishops in Venezuela and then by the Organization of American States, Maduro insisted he would not leave office until his term ended in 2025. Maduro’s Supreme Court stripped the National Assembly, of which Guaido is now president, of its legislative powers in 2017, thus ending Venezuela’s decades-old tradition of democratic checks and balances. A Constituents Assembly was set up of mostly Socialists United supporters. The Socialists United are the largest party in the National Assembly, but opposition parties have more seats. Venezuela is currently experiencing its worse political, economic and humanitarian crisis in a generation. The economy will contract for the third straight year. Vasily Nebenzya, Russia’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations said that the main purpose of the U.S. push for humanitarian aid deliveries last weekend was to provoke Maduro. “We would like to warn against thoughtless steps to implement a military scenario in Venezuela," he said during a UN Security Council meeting this week, according to Russian newswire Interfax. He said Washington should “unblock the accounts of PdVSA.” Nebenzya estimated that the damage to the country's economy from sanctions is estimated at $345 billion. “Washington and London recently robbed the Venezuelan people for a total of $30 billion in oil and banking assets," he said. "Let’s call a spade a spade: We are blatantly robbing a sovereign country, trying to bring it to poverty.” Harsher sanctions were only put in place this year. Venezuela’s economy was crumbling for at least two years prior to Washington’s sanctions policy. 