U.S. Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell speaking in New York and focusing on the near-term goals for the American economy, has said it sits “in a good place”, employment has been broad based and the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) will be “patient as we determine what future adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate.” “The United States is currently in the midst of one of the longest economic expansions in our history. Unemployment is low and inflation is close to our 2%,” Powell said yesterday in the Big Apple. “My colleagues and I on the FOMC [Federal Open Markets Committee] are focused on using our monetary policy tools to sustain those favorable conditions.” Delivering his address at the 87th annual awards dinner of the Citizens Budget Commission, a non-partisan, non-profit organization founded in 1932 that attempts to influence change in the finances and services of New York City and New York State government, Powell said that judged against the “dual mandate” of achieving maximum employment and stable prices, which Congress has charged the Federal Reserve to deliver, “the economy is in a good place.”    Noting that the current economic expansion in the U.S. has been under way for almost a decade and highlighting the importance of growth-enhancing policies, he remarked that: “This long period of growth has pushed the unemployment rate down near historic lows.” (see graph below - Figure 1). In his speech titled “Recent Economic Developments and Longer-Term Challenges”, the Fed chair said that while the unemployment rate for African Americans and Hispanics “remains above the rates for whites and Asians, the disparities have narrowed appreciably as the economic expansion has continued.” (See graph below - Figure 2). Highlighting encouraging signs on the economic front, Powell said the labor force participation rate of people in their prime working years (ages 25 to 54), has been rising for the past three years. Furthermore, business-sector productivity growth, which had been disappointing during the expansion, moved up in the first three quarters of 2018. That said, the Fed chair said while the data he presented was positive it was important to recognize that not everyone in the U.S has shared in the benefits of the expansion to the same degree, and that “too many households still struggle to make ends meet.” Price Stability After remaining below the Fed’s target for several years, inflation by their preferred measure averaged roughly 2% last year. “Inflation has softened a bit since then, largely reflecting the recent drop in oil prices. Futures markets and other indicators suggest that oil prices are unlikely to fall further, and if this proves correct, oil's drag on overall inflation will subside,” he said. On core inflation, which is the change in costs of goods and services and excludes volatile food and energy prices and most often calculated using the consumer price index (CPI), Powell noted it “often provides a better signal of where inflation is heading.” At present core inflation is running just a tad below the Fed’s 2% stated objective. It was noted that signs of upward pressure on inflation appear muted despite the strong labor market. Near-Term Outlook In turning to the near-team outlook, over the past few months some “crosscurrents and conflicting signals” have nevertheless been seen, the Fed chair stated. So, it was prudent to exercise some caution. “For instance, growth has slowed in some major economies, particularly China and Europe. Uncertainty is elevated around some unresolved government policy issues, including Brexit and ongoing trade negotiations,” he said. Added to that financial conditions have tightened since last fall. He added: “While most of the incoming domestic economic data have been solid, some surveys of business and consumer sentiment have moved lower. Unexpectedly weak retail sales data for December also give reason for caution.” Fed Rates Amid the positive outlook presented by the Fed chair, but also given muted inflation pressures and those crosscurrents, Powell stated: “The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) will be patient as we determine what future adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate may be appropriate to support our dual-mandate objectives. This common-sense risk-management approach has served the Committee well in the past.” With less than three weeks to go before the FOMC’s next meeting on March 20, the CME Fedwatch Tool puts the probability at 98.7% that the current target federal funds rate of 225 to 250 basis points (2.25%-2.50%) will remain unchanged. (Note: The federal funds rate is the interest rate at which depository institutions (e.g. banks and credit unions) lend reserve balances to other depository institutions overnight, on an uncollateralized basis). Longer-Term Challenges & Opportunities While during the period from 1991 through to 2007, the U.S. economy expanded annually at around 3%, which was similar to the pace for much of second half of the 20th century, since 2007 growth has averaged just 1.6%. Had that earlier 3% growth figure persisted over the past 12 years, Powell said incomes today would be “almost 20% higher than they now are.” Looking at why has growth slowed and what could be done about the situation, it was pointed out that growth in hours worked has slowed, in part, because of slower U.S. population growth. On top of that birth rates have edged down and immigration has slowed. “Not only is the total population growing more slowly, but the share of the population in their prime working years is falling steadily as the very large baby-boom generation is moving into retirement,” Powell said. For instance, among those aged 16 to 24, participation in the U.S. labor market has fallen from back from about 65% in the 1990s to 55% today. The research into labor force participation in the U.S. and across the world also “does not find a magic fix” he stressed. That said, he added: “But it does suggest a variety of policies that might better prepare people for the modern workforce as well as support and reward labor force participation. On that front, academic work by Francesco Grigoli, Zsóka Kóczán, and Petia Topalova from 2018, "Labor Force Participation in Advanced Economies: Drivers and Prospects" (Chapter 2 in International Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook), was cited. Powell told the audience that that the Fed has “neither the tools nor the mandate” to directly address the forces restraining labor force participation. While saying that the Fed can contribute by “fostering a strong labor market” in line with their mandate, it was not the Fed's role to advocate certain labor force policies. That aside, Powell posited: “I strongly believe policies that bring prime-age workers into productive employment, particularly those who may have been left behind because of low skills or educational attainment, could bring great benefits both to those workers and to our economy.” Nonetheless he added: “We need policies that support innovation and create a favorable environment for investment in both the skills of workers and the tools they have. Indeed, the recent tax reforms were designed in part to boost capital investment and thus productivity.” 