President Trump’s recent tweet urging OPEC to relax caused a sharp but brief drop in oil prices, not so much because traders thought that his tweet would change OPEC behavior but because they knew other traders would react to it. That’s the way the market works, for good or ill, but it’s not terribly relevant in the long run—meaning more than a day or so. But could the proposed legislation to declare OPEC an illegal cartel and penalize it accordingly have a more lasting effect on prices? The thought apparently is that preventing OPEC (and other producers) from colluding to alter their production in order to influence prices would have a positive effect on the U.S., its citizens and economy. Aside from the legal question of whether foreign governments can be held legally accountable for actions taken overseas where they are not illegal, which I am dubious about but not qualified to comment on, both the hypocrisy and the effectiveness of the action need to be scrutinized.    First, there is the question of the very fragile U.S. glass house. There are numerous policies in the U.S. to control commodity prices, especially agricultural, and far beyond just the Renewable Fuel Standard, which mandates the blending of ethanol with gasoline as a crutch to corn farmers in the electorally important state of Iowa. I mean, to support our energy security and um, way of life or something. To say nothing of all the other measures that interfere in free trade of agricultural products from avocados to sugar. But cartels are actually quite commonplace around the world historically, even in modern times. Agreements to cut production equally during recessions so as to allow producers to ride out a temporary weak market have often been employed and with government approval if not insistence, in other countries, steel being a prominent example. (Such was done in the U.S. before anti-trust laws, openly and legally, although Andrew Carnegie famously refused to cooperate with other steel producers in the nineteenth century.) Similarly, there have been many Commodity Price Stabilization Agreements aimed at supporting producers in the Third World. And OPEC’s behavior is no different from the quota system established by the Texas Railroad Commission in the 1930s in response to a glut that sent oil prices below that of water locally. The TRC compared demand to production capacity and set capacity utilization levels for producers in the state, while a number of other states adopted their guidance. Given that Perrier is now slightly more expensive than Brent crude, one presumes OPEC is proving less effective than the Texas Railroad Commission was in its heyday. (I haven’t ridden any trains in Texas, so maybe they are doing a bang-up job in that department.) Of course, the TRC had the Texas Rangers to enforce their orders (the peace officers, not the baseball team), while OPEC has, well, economists and accountants. Not that economists can’t do a lot of damage. And while agreements amongst producers can influence the price of oil for months, even years under the right conditions, the sustainable price of oil is determined much more by the response of consumers to given prices and the willingness of nations to allow oil exploration and development in their territory. The 1970s oil price surge would have been overturned much faster had not countries like Kuwait, Libya and Venezuela decided to conserve their resources. Their production dropped 3 mb/d from 1972 to 1975, and by 1985 was down about 5 mb/d, largely without coordination. Ultimately, what OPEC critics are suggesting is that nations not retain sovereign control over their resources, that the U.S. (or the Congress) can decide whether or not they produce oil and how much. This is a bit of a throwback to the 19th century when, for example, the United States pressured Japan to sign trade deals that gave it significant control over Japanese trade policies. It’s easy to imagine the outrage in the United States Congress if, for example, China insisted that American farmers plant more soybeans to bring the price down. (Kind of like the outrage I feel paying more for candy because sugar moguls contribute vast amounts to politicians.) Essentially, what the supporters of the move must be hoping (whether they realize it or not), is that if oil exporters cease cooperating, the price will drop and members with large resources—Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela—would then increase investment sharply to meet demand when high cost producers cut back, including U.S. shale, Canadian oil sands, and some deepwater areas. Which would translate into a much greater market share for, most notably, the Middle East exporters. Not only would this be unpalatable in most U.S. political circles but it would increase their market power and probably lead to higher prices. Which would be accelerated if political unrest in a country that had ramped up production caused exports to cease, kind of like 1979. Oopsie. 