This is just a hunch. But last week’s $8 billion award by the International Arbitration Tribunal to U.S. oil firm ConocoPhillips is a sign of things to come in Venezuela. The longer the ruling Socialists United (PSUV) stay in power the more likely foreign companies pressure international courts for retribution for the expropriation of their properties by deceased PSUV founder Hugo Chavez. Venezuela is broke. They cannot pay for lawsuits like this. If this keeps up, Venezuela will be sold to the lowest bidder once its market re-opens. Wait for it. ... As it is, the country is in default on all of its sovereign bonds except for the PdVSA 2020 bond, a quasi-sovereign issued by the state-owned oil firm. When the day comes that PSUV has fallen from grace, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank and other multilateral institutions will sweep in to help reform this Cuba-light economy. It will the second biggest IMF aid package after Argentina’s $56 billion one. If Colombian novelist Gabriel Garcia Marquez was to write a novel about Chavez’s life, the first sentence might read something like this: March 13, 2019, marks the day that the beloved revolutionary Hugo Rafael Chavez Frias died twice; once in Havana and once on this bleak, downpour-of-a-day in a weeping Caracas. International litigation risk weighs on the cash-flow stress created by declining oil production at PdVSA and new sanctions imposed on crude oil sales last month. They won’t pay anytime soon. But a new government will surely be asked to if they want these companies back. On Tuesday, Venezuela’s opposition parties led by National Assembly president Juan Guaido, said foreign oil drillers should be allowed back into Venezuela without requiring a local partner, Bloomberg reported. This is another anti-Chavez policy, seeing how it was Chavez who kicked foreigners out of the oil market. Chavez was always of the mind that foreign companies were taking unfair advantage of Venezuela and therefore should leave. He saw wealthy Venezuelans partnering with wealthy multinationals with the help of wealthy politicians. Chavez, for his part, represented Venezuela’s “forgotten man,” the 99%, to pull from the old slogans of the Occupy Wall Street movement here at home. Chavez’s emotional rhetoric and nationalist pride easily made him one of the most popular leaders in Latin America in the 2000s. But his distrust and disdain for foreigners and the rich came with no other solutions and no real alternatives. Venezuela never invested in its own oil sector, and PdVSA is basically bankrupt as a result. If the model was Cuba, they’ve made a mess of themselves getting there. For sure when the day comes that PSUV is out of power, everything Chavez set up in his revolt against “Yankee imperialists” and the classic European colonial boogeyman will be replaced. At yesterday’s IHS Markit’s CERAWeek conference in Houston, Venezuelan Ambassador Carlos Vecchio’s anti-Maduro remarks were interrupted by applause, according to a Bloomberg article. Vecchio and Luisa Palacios, chairwoman of PdVSA subsidiary Citgo, “appeared close to tears,” the Bloomberg article states. Citgo was once a proud flagship enterprise of Venezuela in the U.S. Now it is partially owned by the Russians and cannot send dollars back to Venezuela due to sanctions. By April 28, if PSUV is still in power, Citgo will be banned from importing Venezuelan crude oil, as will all U.S. oil importers. The ConocoPhillips ruling came last Friday. The oil company originally sued for damages up to $30 billion for the takeover of three oil projects in the Chavez years, according to a World Bank report. Chavez died of cancer in Havana in 2013. Chavez picked his vice president, Nicolas Maduro, to lead the country before elections were held later that year. Maduro narrowly beat politician Henrique Capriles to finish out Chavez’s term. Maduro was reelected in May 2018, but the Supreme Court had disqualified all of the leading opposition candidates from running. Most opposition politicians boycotted the election. Capriles was banned from public office in 2017. It’s not just American companies wanting to be paid for Chavez’s expropriations. Canadian mining firms Rusoro Mining and Crystallex International each settled an arbitration claim with Venezuela for more than $1 billion last year. Exxon’s $1.6 billion award against Venezuela was annulled in 2015, but they have filed a new claim. There are around 20 claims against Venezuela at the moment. It is unclear how any of them will be paid. In order for the Venezuelan government to seek international financial aid for economic development and reconstruction, it would first have to make amends with the defaulted bondholders and, perhaps, settle the existing claims against them before companies would agree to return to Venezuela. Venezuela is suffering through a hyperinflation period similar to that of Zimbabwe in 2008 and 2009. Zimbabwe later adopted a multi-currency strategy, allowing locals and businesses to use a number of global currencies instead of its own. The Venezuelan economy is expected to contract again this year.