The last posting about the oil price on February 17th pointed to higher prices into April. Oil was at $55.59 per barrel and has risen 5.3% to date. As mentioned in February, oil reached the $55.66 level which is significant because price exceeded the 38.2% retracement level of the October-December decline. Chart 1 As we can see below, oil has entered the most bullish season of the year. Chart 2-Oil Price Annual Histogram (from 1983)    Below is the daily histogram of expected price for the month of March. The 20th has historically been the most bearish day of the month for oil. This may be a day to add to long positions. Chart 3- Daily Histogram for Oil for March The histogram for April shows that there has historically been a peak on the 21st-22nd. The $65 area appears to be a reasonable target by April. Chart 4- Daily Histogram for Oil for April The bullish factors are: *Seasonally, oil has entered the most bullish part of any year *The monthly cycle points up as depicted in chart 5 *Oil was down from late September through late December. When this has occurred in the past, price has been higher four months later in 18 of 22 cases (April). In other words, if oil sells off in the fourth quarter, the seasonal tendency to rally in March-April is enhanced *If oil has risen in the first half of March, as it has, price has been higher in 16 of 21 cases one month later. This points to the late April time period denoted by the monthly cycle *Sentiment supports the bulls. Chart 5- Monthly Cycle Here is an update of a sentiment measure. The ratio of 2 ETFs graphed below is a measure of sentiment. The UCO rises by twice the price of oil and the USO rises by one time the price of oil. A high ratio is an indicator of bullish sentiment while a low ratio is an indication of caution. Note that the last high in this ratio was the high in the oil price. The ratio is at a low level, an indication of very reserved optimism toward oil and not representative of a top. Since the last posting one month ago, this barometer has barely moved despite the higher crude quote. Chart 6-UCO/USO Ratio   