Earlier this week, Oman's economy took another unwelcome (if not entirely unexpected) hit, when Moody's downgraded its credit rating to junk status. The country now has the unhappy distinction of being rated as junk by all three major credit ratings agencies –Standard & Poor’s and Fitch have had it in that category since May 2017 and December 2018 respectively. Moody’s said the main reason for its downgrade is the expectation that Oman will struggle to make the budget cuts it needs, which in turn will further weaken its fiscal position and increase its reliance on foreign funding. With all three agencies now sharing the same downbeat assessment of the country’s economic position, it is likely to find its borrowing costs will rise further. The government of Sultan Qaboos Al-Said is in a difficult position. Its spending far outpaces its revenues, but it is under considerable pressure to maintain locals' living standards – there have been small, sporadic protests about unemployment in recent years and the authorities are nervous about the potential for these to grow into something more politically challenging. Those pressures mean the Ministry of Finance finds it all but impossible to introduce new taxes or other revenue-generating measures, for fear of provoking public opposition. As a result, plans to introduce a “sin tax” on imports of alcohol, tobacco and sugary drinks and a 5% value added tax (VAT) keep being pushed back. On the current timetable, the new excise duty is unlikely to be levied before the second half of 2019 and VAT will not be introduced until the start of 2020 at the earliest. Even when these measures are brought in, they will have a limited impact on government finances. Moody's estimates that the two taxes could between them generate revenues equivalent to about 1.7% of GDP. To put that in context, the budget deficit is expected to run at 7-11% of GDP over the next few years. Yet they are the only substantive fiscal measures the government appears to be considering. The International Monetary Fund warned Muscat last year that it needed to make “substantial” reforms if it is to get its economy on the right track, but the momentum just isn’t there at the moment. “Prospects for new meaningful fiscal reforms are limited,” said Moody’s in its downgrade announcement on March 5. With limited new revenue-raising opportunities, Oman continues to rely on sales of oil and gas to keep things moving, but oil prices are currently around $65 a barrel which is nowhere near enough to cover the outgoings. Dubai-based Emirates NBD thinks Oman needs an oil price of $96.8 per barrel to balance its budget. Harsh reviews of Oman's economic position are now par for the course. “Oman’s balance sheets are among the worst in the GCC. The budget deficit is likely to reach around 10% of GDP in 2019 and the debt-to-GDP ratio has jumped from 5% in 2014 to almost 50% last year,” noted Jason Tuvey, senior emerging markets economist at London-based Capital Economics, in a report on March 7. The situation looks likely to get worse rather than better. Oman's current account deficits are expected to remain at around 6-10% of GDP in the next several years and Moody's forecasts that the country’s debt pile will reach around 60% of GDP and more than 170% of revenues by 2021. Geopolitical concerns Muscat has in the past been able to turn to its richer Gulf neighbours for help – in 2011 they pledged $10bn in aid to both Bahrain and Oman. However, Muscat’s ability to tap that source for further funds is complicated by the tense geopolitical environment in the Gulf these days. Oman finds itself caught in the middle of a bitter diplomatic stand-off between Qatar on the one hand and Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and the UAE on the other. That has provided some economic opportunities which the likes of Sohar port and the national airline Oman Air have been able to exploit. However, it has also raised regional tensions and required deft footwork by Muscat to keep above the fray. Muscat is also nervous about the intentions of the UAE towards some of its territory. Oman recently banned citizens of the UAE and other GCC countries from owning land in border areas and it has been clamping down on any signs of unwanted political activity, particularly in the sensitive Musandam peninsula which is separated from the rest of Oman by UAE territory. According to Amnesty International, four Omani citizens and one Emirati – all members of the Al-Shuhuh tribe, which is from Musandam – were recently sentenced to life imprisonment on charges that included “using information technology to prejudice the security and unity of the country and its territories”. There are some chinks of light on the economic front. For example, Oman still has very high per capita income and reasonably sizeable (albeit declining) savings equivalent to around 41% of GDP at the end of 2018, according to Moody’s. It also has the ability to sell of some state-owned assets. In October the state-owned Oman Oil Company sold a 10% stake in the Khazzan-Makarem gas field joint-venture to Malaysia’s Petronas for an estimated $1.3bn. Moody’s says “a significant portion of the proceeds” are being transferred to the government to finance the 2019 budget. That will ease the fiscal pressure for this year, but the government will have to come up with other strategies if it is to put its economy on a more stable footing in the longer-term. 