In February, the Green New Deal (GND) was introduced as a resolution in the US House of Representatives aimed at achieving “net-zero greenhouse gas emissions through a fair and just transition for all communities and workers … to create millions of good, high-wage jobs.” Here are five key questions for policymakers to consider as they ponder an energy and workforce transition of impressive scope, scale, and pace. How Healthy Is The Energy Job Market Now? Overall, the job market is pretty strong for American workers, continuing its post-Great Recession expansion. The energy sector has been a significant contributor, although the sector’s current situation can present itself as feast, famine, or fog, depending on where you look and when. Direct your gaze to the oil and gas fields of West Texas’s Permian Basin and you’ll see a feast. In 2018, driven by advances in extraction technology making the shale resources there more accessible, Texas recorded its highest level of oil production ever, which is placing outsized demands on labor markets, driving up wages for the workers and those in support industries. Of course, West Texas has witnessed this type of boom many times since oil was first produced there—and we know that busts have typically followed when oil prices come crashing back to earth. Looking eastward, the coal fields of Central Appalachia have been pummeled by competition from the abundant natural gas from the Permian and (closer to home) the Marcellus-Utica basin, along with renewable power. West Virginia’s unemployment rate of 5.1 percent may be low by its own historical standards, but it is above the national average, thanks to coal job losses. The rest of the state’s economy has been unable to absorb those impacts, and the work force has shrunk as workers leave for employment elsewhere or retire early. That work force contraction is helping to keep the state’s unemployment rate down. Ironically, so is the construction of pipelines through West Virginia connecting the Marcellus-Utica basin to the markets where natural gas is displacing coal. But this is a temporary boon—unlike coal mining jobs, pipeline construction work eventually peters out. Meanwhile, when upstream fuel production for fossil and bioenergy plants is excluded, solar and wind are the largest employers in the power generation sector. Even without a full-blown GND, the Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that solar photovoltaic installers and wind turbine service technicians will be the fastest-growing employment opportunities in our economy over the next decade (105% and 96% projected growth, respectively). However, year-to-year growth in renewables is not guaranteed. After a strong 2017, with a surge in new capacity installation that outpaced all other power generation sources, renewables employment dropped in 2018. There are several possible reasons for this, including introduction of tariffs on solar panel imports and steel imports, which have raised the cost of installed solar and wind capacity. The consultancy Deloitte projects a rebound in 2019, as state and federal policy and corporate procurement incentives outpace uncertainty around tariffs and pending expiration of federal tax credits. How Sizable Is The Effort In Historical Terms? The GND is more a mission statement than a specific policy proposal, but the basic idea is to stem fossil fuel emissions and ramp up renewable generation very quickly (in as little as one decade). Commentators have frequently compared the GND’s potential deployment to two examples from twentieth-century U.S. history that involved dramatic, rapid shifts: 1) the decision to send astronauts to the moon and 2) World War II. The speed of progress toward the moonshot was staggering—and the effort was highly targeted, focusing on the specific technologies necessary to transport a single vehicle to and from the lunar landscape 240,000 miles away while keeping the occupants alive. At the height of the moon effort in 1966, relevant spending amounted to 0.7% of GDP. In today’s dollars, that would be $150 billion. By contrast, World War II consumed 35.8% of GDP at its peak (1945), an amount equal to $7.4 trillion today. The massive undertaking involved virtually every aspect of the economy. Over 17 percent of the work force was deployed in the armed forces and nearly five million women entered the work force (a 40 percent increase), many in place of men deployed overseas, to bolster domestic production to support war efforts. Since the GND is currently more a concept than a specific plan, it is impossible to accurately estimate its scale. That has not stopped some from trying, of course, and one estimate as high as $93 trillion (presumably a cumulative rather than annual figure) has been bandied about by politicians and pundits, apparently without any foundation. I will bravely venture that a GND-like endeavor is something between the moonshot and the war and timidly suggest it is probably closer to the former. The private profit-seeking incentives that are part of an energy transition will find efficiencies and drive down costs in ways that a singularly focused effort to get to the moon did not or a war effort could not. How Mobile Are Workers And Their Skills? Let’s say the scale of intervention with GND doesn’t come near that involved in a world war. The GND would still require an enormous, rapid redeployment of capital and labor. Putting aside what deep decarbonization might mean for stranded assets, capital markets, and macroeconomic outcomes, how readily could labor be redirected to meet the challenge? Consider one abrupt scenario in which coal mines and shale basin drilling operations simply vanish. Coal power plants accelerate their current steady stream of closures until all are shuttered. Natural gas plants sharply reverse their recent expansion. Oil refineries follow suit, as do pipeline operators. Indirect impacts reverberate through the economies of states producing oil, gas, and coal. Meanwhile, imagine that renewables production booms. The dynamics of renewables employment is driven largely by its emergent status—the majority of jobs in solar and wind are in construction and manufacturing. If build-out proceeds rapidly, employment will follow suit and labor markets for the required skills will tighten. In theory, these new renewables jobs could be filled by workers exiting the fossil fuel industry. But the need for rapid transferability of skills and interregional migration of labor presents challenges. Field electricians, for instance, may find it easy to re-apply their skills from an oil field to a wind farm, but how easily can a derrick worker become a solar panel installer or an underground miner become a wind turbine service technician? What type of retraining would be necessary for such transitions, how long would it take, and what would wage differentials across occupations look like? What Happens After the Renewables Boom? The rapid addition of renewable capacity would have a dramatic effect in the build-out phase—but employment would slow as that phase came to a close, since wind and solar plants require little labor to operate. Again, the workforce would be faced with a need to transfer skills (in this case, construction and manufacturing skills) in pursuit of other opportunities inside and outside of the energy sector. Additionally, the renewables build-out could substantially reshape the regional distribution of U.S. energy production. Currently, fossil fuels are extracted wherever the economically accessible deposits are found, and entire economies are shaped by these dynamics. Some fossil-abundant areas such as Texas, Oklahoma and the Rockies are also rich in renewable resources and could become among the largest providers of renewable power, but electricity tends to be generated closer to where its users are found. In a highly electrified world run by renewable power, the energy configuration would likely be a mix of 1) large utility-scale renewables operations in relatively unpopulated areas connected to users by long-distance transmission lines and 2) distributed energy resources located very close to users. In short, energy production and employment will be less regionally concentrated. This could temper the political battles often waged by regional actors to protect energy interests—or it could simply redefine them as new regional interests emerge. Does “Emissions-free” Necessarily Mean Renewable? A big “what if” here is whether carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS) has a role in the GND. This, along with the role of nuclear power, is an issue of some debate: the Green New Deal language says “net zero” emissions, with no specific policies yet defined to constrain the options for achieving that goal. CCUS works by keeping carbon dioxide emissions out of the atmosphere and either diverting it to industrial products or injecting it below ground to be used for enhanced oil recovery or stored into perpetuity. Another form of CCUS is direct air capture, which essentially vacuums carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere to counter the effect of emissions. If CCUS technologies are part of a GND, it could mean a lot less disruption in fossil fuel extraction and use while addressing the carbon dioxide emissions problem. Some see this as salvation or as a politically prudent approach. For others, CCUS undermines the vision of a clean energy economy. Either way, it could have a significant effect on the regional distribution of energy production and the composition of the energy labor force. A fundamental issue in all this is whether the policy focus should be on means (deploying certain technologies) or outcomes (lowering the level of emissions). Enter the role of a carbon price. It provides an incentive for the latter and a revenue source for the former. A critical debate in GND discussions is whether a carbon price should be central, complementary or non-existent. That topic warrants a separate and deeper discussion. As policymakers and the public exchange ideas about the ambitious vision outlined in the Green New Deal, we should not narrowly pursue silver-bullet solutions. Instead, it’s best to approach any plan for realizing the GND with a firm grounding in evidence about emission reduction potential, energy job market dynamics, realistic appraisals of timelines and trajectories, and readiness to mitigate unintended consequences. Only then can a Green New Deal chart its most promising course. [Braden Welborn of the Duke University Energy Initiative provided editorial assistance on this post.] 