My outlook heading into last week was cautious. While I was looking for a rebound to occur early in the week, I thought it would fail. I had adopted this outlook in large part because the daily advance/decline analysis had closed negative on Friday March 8. To my surprise, the A/D numbers were very strong on both Monday and Tuesday, which turned the A/D analysis positive. This is how a majority of the daily A/D lines ended the week. Still, the daily advance/decline lines are not as strong as they were in early January. The Spyder Trust (SPY) moved above its daily starc+ band on Friday as it made a new rebound high at $282.21. The rising 20-day EMA is at $276.23 which is 1.7% below Friday’s close. The daily S&P 500 A/D line has bounced off its WMA but is still well below its March 1 high, and therefore has not yet confirmed the new price high. The daily starc- band is now at $273.63, and there is further support at $271.23, the March 8 low. Of course, the daily A/D line analysis has to be viewed with regard to the weekly and monthly A/D line analysis, which are both positive. Negative daily readings that occur when the longer time frame analysis is positive suggest just a pause or interruption in the bullish major trends. The technology stocks led the market higher last week as the Technology Sector Fund (XLK) was up 4.89% for the week. This erased the 2.1% loss from the previous week. XLK has 18% in Microsoft (MSFT) and 16.6% in Apple Inc. (AAPL). XLK did exceed the daily starc+ band (not shown) the last three days of the week, and is therefore overextended. The rising 20-day EMA is at $70.47. The weekly technical studies look very strong as XLK's relative performance, which measures the performance of XLK against the S&P 500, is rising sharply. The weekly On Balance Volume (OBV) is also in a strong uptrend. The Invesco QQQ Trust (QQQ) is also considered a leading indicator of the technology stocks as it has well over 9% in each of Apple (AAPL) Microsoft (MSFT), Alphabet (GOOGL) and Amazon.com (AMZN). QQQ triggered a weekly doji sell signal last week, but that was reversed by the strong close this week, which surpassed the highs of the last two weeks. There is quarterly pivot resistance at $180.04. The weekly Nasdaq 100 A/D line broke its downtrend (line a) and moved above its WMA on January 11 (line b). The daily A/D line (not shown) is above its WMA, but has not yet made a new high with prices. It bounced from its WMA last Thursday. The close Friday was above the daily starc+ band with the 20-day EMA at $173.63. It was also a good week for crude oil as the May contract closed up $2.39 or 4.2%. This has turned the focus on the $60 area with the weekly starc+ band at $64.21. The 20-week EMA and good support at $56.08 was tested last week and the EMA has now turned up. The weekly technical studies are positive and do indicate that crude oil can move even higher. The On Balance Volume has turned up sharply after moving above its WMA in late January. The Herrick Payoff Index (HPI) turned positive two weeks before the OBV and is holding well above the zero line. The 10-Year T-Note yield closed lower last week at 2.593%, and is now not far above the year’s low at 2.554%. As yields were making higher highs in 2018 (line a) the MACD was forming lower highs (line b). This negative divergence was a sign that yields were topping and the MACD dropped below its WMA in November, signaling lower yields. Both the MACD and MACD- His are negative and still favor even lower yields. It was a mixed bag for the economic data last week, as Monday’s Retail Sales were barely higher than expected and not that strong. There were no surprises from last week’s inflation numbers, as the CPI and PPI came in about as expected. Durable Goods came in at 0.4% while the consensus was expecting 0.6%. Friday’s Empire State Manufacturing Survey was quite weak at 3.7, which was well below even the low estimate. The preliminary March reading for Consumer Sentiment was much better than expected at 97.8. This week, we have the Housing Market Index on Monday and the FOMC meeting starts on Tuesday with the press conference on Wednesday afternoon. On Thursday we get the Philadelphia Fed Business Outlook Survey and the very important Leading Indicators. Unlike last week, there a few US sector ETFs and one overseas ETF that look attractive for purchase this week. They do require a pullback from Friday’s close. There are several individual stocks that showed up on my weekend scan that have attractive charts. The only caveat is that with several major averages at the daily starc+ bands a sharply lower close could neutralize last week’s positive gain. For those who followed the four-week dollar-cost averaging plan I recommended before Christmas, you should still be 75% long at an average price of 2497 based on the S&P 500. Sell if the S&P 500 has a weekly close below 2597. On February 25, 25% of the position was sold when the S&P 500 moved above 2805. In my Viper ETF Report and the Viper Hot Stocks Report, I provide my A/D line analysis twice each week with specific buy and sell advice. New subscribers also receive six trading lessons.