Know your downside before falling asleep if the music dies. Expect the S&P 500 Index to drop from 17 times earnings to 15 times, 10% shrinkage. Each multiple shed counts up to 6% of valuation. At 15 times, historically, the market would rest still in pricey territory. Think of U.S. Steel, even Schlumberger and AT&T. Nobody cares. Amplitude of volatility for FANG paper is probably double the market’s rate of change, daily. Look at Facebook. The 12-month price chart on Schlumberger replicates an expert ski trail snaking downward. As internet and e-commerce names populate the top 10 in the S&P 500, the market today is more volatile than in the 2000 tech bubble, even days of the Nifty Fifty, late ‘60s, early ‘70s. The deep recession of 1973-74 put away all pricey paper then selling at 40 times prospective earnings. No comebacks. Think of Xerox, Polaroid and Eastman Kodak, once deemed good for the next 10 years, but they washed out.    “Bye, Bye Miss American Pie”? Monthly indicators flicker yellow here and abroad. Nobody knows how to model China any longer while the European economic community is mired in its no-growth setting, politicians in a funk. A month ago they talked about raising interest rates, now stimulus hangs in the air. Our wishy-washy FRB similarly is repositioning itself, failing to find inflation under any rock. The biggest risk is the market itself. Yes, it can sell at 16 to 18 times earnings in a setting of low interest rates and minimal inflation. But, there has to be an earnings story as well. It’s getting tortuous to develop a rising earning scenario for the world. What’s going on? Big chunks of the market already languish into desuetude. Materials stocks like U.S. Steel and Alcoa stand cut into halves. Nobody cares. No dividend succor there. Even AT&T with a 6.7% yield trades listlessly, approaching its 12-month low. Analyzable crude oil producers like EOG Resources and Occidental Petroleum which now yields 5% find no takers. Schlumberger tracks near a 5% yield but nobody cares after sliding down from the mid-seventies past spring. Heartland stocks like Deere, Honeywell, United Technologies, DowDuPont and Caterpillar rest mired in 12-month trading ranges, but a worldwide slowdown would crimp their operating profit margins and there’s no yield support anywhere. You’re supposed to value GDP stocks on average earnings power over a full cycle - good year, average year and bad one, but the market can disregard such a judicious approach to valuation. Now consider internet and e-commerce paper. Capitalizations range from $500 billion to $800 billion for the coterie of Amazon, Alphabet, Alibaba and Facebook. Throw in Microsoft and you’re talking about some 20% of the S&P 500’s valuation. Boeing may be a 9% position in the Dow Industrials but in the S&P 500 it’s just another $200 billion market capitalization that’s questionable. Implied volatility for the technology sector is probably two times the market’s so the market cannot go up without tech. If Amazon’s and Microsoft’s operating outlook sours, these stocks easily drop a snappy 20%, maybe 10%, overnight. You don’t wanna be 100% invested the day they take Amazon, Alphabet and Microsoft out to be shot. Big cap financials like JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup trade 15% to 20% below highs set past September. Six months ago the consensus on rising interest margins for banks was nearly universal. But, it didn’t happen. The yield curve for Treasuries is nearly flat from money market paper ranging up to 10-year Treasuries ticking around 2.6%. I’m holding onto Citigroup because it sells near 10 times earnings. But, banks historically have sold at 60% of the market’s multiplier so they may be too efficiently priced with no foreseeable earnings leverage story now attached. Absent top line domestic revenue growth with foreign markets sloughing off, there’s no case for rising operating profit margins, anywhere. A dire profit margin cyclically is possible. The mini recession caused by the tech bubble took down margins from 8% to 5% between 2000 and 2002. During the financial meltdown of 2008-09 margins dropped sharply from near 10% to under 6%. Historically, operating profit margins range between 9% and 10% when GDP is normalized. Today, there’s no upward margin leverage in the system, particularly if GDP shows no late foot. Wage expense and interest rates come into play as well, but their containment is already reflected in the good numbers. Wage expense as a percentage of GDP runs in the low sixties. It was high sixties decades ago. Then, Paul Volcker took on the Teamsters and UAW in 1982 when wages as a percentage of GDP hit 69%, but dropped to 65% a year later. The country became competitive, again, after the market sold at book value. Lemme go back to individual stock concentration in the S&P 500 because it has changed so much since 2001. General Electric, at 4.1% was the market leader, then, followed by Microsoft and Exxon Mobil at 2.8% positions. Pfizer, Citigroup and Walmart followed at 2% weights. Even American International Group with a market capitalization of $186 billion held seventh place. Cisco Systems weighed in at 1%, followed by Coca-Cola. So, technology, the internet and e-commerce hardly counted for much or didn’t exist even then. Today, they’ve crowded out traditional businesses like energy, healthcare, banking and insurance. General Electric then was easier to model than Amazon is currently. Actually, Amazon can’t be modeled with any precision. Same goes for Alphabet, Facebook and Apple which was numero uno by yearend 2014, a market capitalization of $677 billion. General Electric had slipped to seventh place while Berkshire Hathaway with a market capitalization of $370 billion now took fifth place, just ahead of Wells Fargo. Google and Facebook were far down the list of top 25 market caps. Just five years ago the top 10 names in the S&P 500 were much easier to model than today. Exxon Mobil held onto its place, number three, for more than 15 years. Today the top 10 names are scarily concentrated in terms of market capitalization, earnings volatility and unpredictably in terms of growth rates and profit margin leverage. What is the defining metric for operators like Amazon, Facebook and Alphabet? The closest I can come is to employ the metric of the operating cash flow multiplier. At least, it tells me about the wherewithal generated to grow the footprints of these franchises. I’m impressed at least with their R&D spend which runs as high as 15% of revenues for Facebook and Alphabet. This is a huge allocation for any company historically speaking. Just let it be productive. Apple runs significantly lower in spending. Consider, Warren Buffett eschewed internet operators and e-commerce providers, tapping Apple for its great franchise, a couple of hundred billion in liquid assets and a moderate price-earnings ratio. But, Apple’s iPhone franchise is challengeable and launches meager new products coming out of research. I’ve passed on Apple but won’t sell out Facebook and Alphabet barring a fundamental change in outlook. Because I’ve characterized the stock market as richly priced in a slowing worldwide setting, I can’t justify more than a 50% invested position. The remaining 50% I’ve earmarked for high-yield bonds, concentrating on BB-rated paper. The spread now between 10-year Treasuries and AAA debentures is unattractive, under 100 basis points. I’ve chosen financial risk over maturity risk. My average duration is five years. If wrong about a possible mini recession developing into a serious downturn, spreads will then widen and I won’t earn my coupon. Nobody promised me a rose garden. I’ve put Facebook, Goldman Sachs and Alibaba in the inefficiently price category along with AT&T. Boeing remains my secular growth industrial with a big question mark, unanswerable for months to come. Sosnoff and / or his managed accounts own: AT&T, Facebook, Amazon, Alphabet, Alibaba, Microsoft, Boeing, Citigroup, Wells Fargo preferreds and Goldman Sachs.  msosnoff@gmail.com 