Unless that Petro coin is worth anything, it is going to be increasingly difficult for Venezuela’s ruling Socialists United to get loans from abroad. Especially if it means the bank has to go through the American financial system. Treasury sanctioned Russia’s Evrofinance on Monday, sending a clear message to other foreign lenders. Evronfinance was involved in helping Venezuela’s president Nicolas Maduro set up the nation’s cryptocurrency last year as an end-around potential sanctions. Sanctions have now hit and are getting worse for the struggling Venezuelan leadership. Targeting Russia is a shot across the bow to other lenders. Chinese banks could easily be next. Both Russia and China have been the lenders of first—and last—resort for Venezuela. “If you're lending money to Venezuela, you can end up in Treasury’s crosshairs,” says Mike Dobson, a former Treasury official in the Office of Foreign Assets Control and now counsel at Morrison & Foerster in Washington. “It’s just too high a risk to do business with Venezuela now. I don’t think China is looking to sink any more money into Venezuela,” he says. Sanctions on Evrofinance make it harder for them to deal with American service providers as well. It essentially cuts them off from the U.S. financial system. Evrofinance said that the bank was operating normally on Monday and would continue working with Maduro. “The bank will unconditionally meet all its commitments to clients and partners in full scope,” the bank’s press office said shortly after sanctions were announced this morning. Evrofinace has been in Caracas since 2011, in the dwindling days of the Hugo Chavez government. The Venezuelan Economic & Social Development Bank has a 50% stake, while Russia’s state-controlled Gazprombank and VTB Bank own the rest. Both of those Russian entities are already sanctioned from obtaining dollar credit. Venezuela is in hock. Last December, CAF, an Andean regional development bank, offered to lend the country $500 million. It was basically designed to help Venezuela pay CAF and other lenders, perhaps even the Russians. Russian and Chinese lenders have been taking crude oil and equity positions in Venezuela’s prized assets in lieu of hard cash. Rosneft, for example, has a large stake in the Citgo refinery and gasoline station network in the U.S. China has been accepting crude oil for payments. This is the third year of Venezuela’s Great Depression. Maduro blocked humanitarian aid convoys from Colombia and Brazil last month, aid he deemed was part of a ploy by American intelligence to stir up dissent against his government. It is unclear if any of the food and medical aid made it into the country. Last weekend, rolling blackouts hit 22 out of 23 states in Venezuela. Maduro blamed the U.S. for a cyberattack on its infrastructure. On the other hand, it is hard to imagine that the Venezuelan government has invested any money in the last several years in its power plants. Venezuela is becoming more closed off to dollars. Dollars are needed to keep high-ranking military supporters of the PSUV and Maduro in line. But barring black market transactions in things like narco-trafficking and extortion, dollar flows into the country are officially clogged. The main source of dollar income, oil revenue from PdVSA crude sales to the U.S., was sanctioned last month. Venezuela sales of crude to the U.S. have to be kept in PdVSA’s blocked accounts in the U.S. and cannot be repatriated. A total crude oil ban goes into effect on April 28. The Treasury Department says sanctions will only be lifted if Maduro steps down. Maduro was sworn in for a 6-year term in January. Venezuela’s Catholic Bishops and the Organization of American States said the May 2018 election of Maduro was illegitimate. The Supreme Court disqualified all of the top-tier opposition politicians from running on various technicalities. As a result, most opposition politicians simply refused to run. Some 50 nations no longer recognize Maduro as the country’s president, choosing to recognize Juan Guaido, National Assembly president, as the highest elected official. Venezuela’s Constitution gives the National Assembly president more power than the vice president in terms of secession. That would be akin to Nancy Pelosi being the true second-in-command in the event President Trump was incapacitated and could no longer serve. Maduro took over after Chavez died of cancer in Cuba in 2013. Chavez picked him to lead. The country has gone into the gutter since. Maduro garners most of his political support abroad from the Cuban government. Barring a dismantling of the PSUV ruling party, it seems apparent that the end-game for them is to unite their Bolivarian Revolution with the Cuban Revolution and become one and the same. Over 3 million Venezuelans have fled the country with more expected to leave as the economy collapses further under the weight of Washington sanctions. 