There are many ways to tell the story of any oil boom, one of which is to view them through the spectrum of the various bottlenecks they create. By any measure, the ongoing boom in the Permian Basin has created more than its share of such traffic jams already, and at least one more is likely on the way. The reasons for this are many: The unprecedented magnitude of this particular oil boom in modern times has much to do with it. The fact that the play area is in a sparsely-populated, mainly-rural part of the world also plays a role. The nature of the oil being produced - the light, sweet variety - and the play area's immense geographic sprawl also have also been major factors in the creation of a variety of bottlenecks. Some of the bottlenecks the Permian has experienced come about in any significant oil or gas boom: The ongoing challenges of training and hiring qualified workers is a classic. The shortage of natural-gas-gathering infrastructure that resulted in a high volume of flaring is another that was also a feature of booms in places like the Eagle Ford and Bakken and Marcellus shale plays. Roads and other limitations in preexisting regional infrastructure inevitably resulted in bottlenecks in traffic as the counties and states struggle with funding major new improvement projects.    Over the last two years, the big bottleneck talk related to the Permian has centered on the need for a major expansion of pipeline takeaway capacity to move oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids (NGLs) out of the basin to major market and refining centers along the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast. But that particular bottleneck is about to start resolving itself during course of this year. Midstream projects will add up to 6 million barrels of oil equivalent of new takeaway capacity out of the Permian by the end of 2021 , and that just from the projects currently underway. This new capacity is desperately needed, as the U.S. Energy Information Agency projects that Permian crude production will double over the next four years, from the current 4 million bopd to as much as 8 million bopd. Given that virtually all Permian Basin natural gas is associated production from wells classified as oil wells, we can expect similar increases in natural gas and NGL production during that time frame.  The nature of bottlenecks is that the resolution of one generally results in others developing further downstream. One of the big ongoing issues for the light, sweet crude coming out of the Permian is the lack of existing refining capacity set up to process that grade of oil. Due to the historic U.S. reliance on imports of crude from places like Mexico, Canada and Venezuela, most capacity at Gulf Coast refineries was designed to process heavy crude. While some refiners, like ExxonMobil (XOM), are working to accommodate more volumes of Permian crude in announced or ongoing expansion projects, the reality is that most additional barrels coming out of the region will have to be exported in order to find a refining home. And there's your next coming Permian-related bottleneck: Gulf coast export capacity, or lack thereof. At least in the near-term, that is. Over the longer-term, there are already a variety of projects in the permitting, funding or construction phases that help resolve the situation. In a piece posted last month, I discussed in detail the ongoing competition in the Corpus Christi area to complete three separate projects that would greatly expand that area's crude export capacity. The Port of Corpus Christi has two projects of its own underway - one to widen and deepen its main channel, and a second in partnership with the Carlyle Group to build an export terminal at Harbor Island - that would both handle the landing and loading of the largest class of oil supertankers, so-called VLCCs. The third project in the region is the proposed Texas Gulf Terminal deepwater facility that is still in the stage of obtaining needed permits from both the Texas and federal governments. With Harbor Island scheduled to come on-line in 2020 and the deepening and widening of the main channel to follow within the following two years, the completion of the Port of Corpus Christi's projects will go a long ways towards alleviating the developing exports bottleneck. Meanwhile, another competition involving three of the nation's largest pipeline companies has developed about 150 miles up the coast, near the coastal town of Freeport. Applications were filed in late January to build two deepwater loading facilities, one by Enterprise Products Partners (EPD), the other by a partnership involving Kinder Morgan (KMI) and Enbridge (ENB). The Sea Port Oil Terminal (SPOT), operated by Enterprise, would be sited about 31 miles off the coast in 115 feet of water and would be capable of fully loading a 2 million barrel VLCC within 24 hours. The Kinder Morgan/Enbridge Texas COLT (Coastal Offshore Loading Terminal) would have similar loading capacity and would be located about 40 miles out into the Gulf of Mexico south of Freeport. Assuming they received their permits within the next 12 months, both projects could be in service by 2022. Many producers of Permian Basin crude have struggled for the past year to find ways of moving their production to market as the bottleneck developed and grew worse over time. But they now see light at the end of that particular tunnel as the new pipelines with major capacity start to come online this year. By the end of 2020, the Permian Basin will likely enjoy a surplus of pipeline capacity. So the transportation bottleneck, while severe, will end up being short-lived. The existence of this set of ongoing expansions and proposed new projects indicates that the coming bottleneck involving export capacity will follow a similar pattern, with owners of the production experiencing a couple of years in which they will have to find creative means of getting their crude to market before the new capacity needed to resolve the issue comes online. The good news for Permian producers is that the coming bottleneck in export capacity will be the last potential roadblock they will need to resolve.   