With great change comes great opportunity, but an opportunity isn’t always necessarily easy or straightforward to take advantage of. October 2018 saw the legalization of recreational cannabis in Canada, which opened the door to tremendous new opportunities. However, this change has been neither straightforward nor consistent across jurisdictions, making it difficult to develop products that can be scaled effectively without a highly nimble distribution strategy and a strong intrinsic brand. For a brand with pan-North American or global ambition, regulatory uncertainty poses a challenge, making thoughtful product planning and supply chain coordination the keys to success. While cannabis use has been legal for medical purposes in Canada since 2001 and remains federally governed under the Cannabis Act, the act now allows: • For non-medical purposes, adults over 18 (and in some cases 19) are eligible to possess up to 30 grams of cannabis flower. • Up to four plants per “dwelling house” including the land surrounding the house and any outbuilding. • Various commercial licenses. Additionally, the law is responsible for determining the distribution capacity of recreational cannabis products in Canada. There are restrictions on how and where cannabis is consumed and how THC and CBD are used in various products. However, while federally the law sets the growing limit at four cannabis plants per household, both the provinces of Manitoba and Quebec have banned home growing altogether, and there are other restrictions imposed by local governments, cities and towns -- not to mention landlords and strata councils -- which makes regulation even more complex. The United States has a completely different approach. While hemp is legal across all 50 states following the passing of the Farm Bill, as of 2018, a total of only eight states consider both cannabis and hemp completely legal for recreational and medical use. However, at time of writing, 46 states out all 50 consider CBD from cannabis legal with a prescription, though state-to-state legislation varies. CBD is illegal in four states: Idaho, Kansas, Nebraska and South Dakota. Building A Brand Canada’s regulations around packaging may have been influenced by American regulations to some extent but also by existing Canadian rules around tobacco products. Canada has also taken additional steps to ensure more consistent, generic packaging for cannabis products to account for child safety. States across the Unitd States that consider cannabis legal also aim to consider child safety but are not limited to such generic branding standards. Packaging can be unique, flashy and distinctive to a brand allowing it to develop its own persona and garner connection between it and its consumer. Regulatory Hurdles U.S. companies such as Dirty Lemon, for example, previously launched a CBD-infused beverage called +cbd. Each bottle contained 20mg of CBD and targeted the wellness market. However, due to the lack of clarity around U.S. cannabis laws, it is reported that the company faced manufacturing and distribution hurdles that led the company to discontinue the product. Distribution and value chain partners such as insurance companies, banks and even freight carriers have all been forced to slow down or even halt production to ensure that they remain compliant. Too Big To Fail? It is well-recognized that large and highly established corporations have never been as nimble as their startup counterparts; there are typically multiple levels of management involved in decision making as well as long-established brand-messaging and agreements with suppliers, distributors, creditors and investors, all of which must be considered when incorporating major changes. Last year, Coca-Cola began investigating the opportunity to incorporate CBD into beverages, but the company likely put this venture on hold until the laws become more clear in the United States. Lagunitas, Heineken’s California beer label, took a different approach, launching what it calls “hoppy sparkling water.” These beverages contain zero alcohol and instead contain 5mg of CBD and 5mg of THC from cannabis. Beverage companies in the alcohol industry have mostly stayed away from using cannabis in their products due to fears around losing their federal licenses. However, a smart strategy that Lagunitas used was to brew the sparkling water and then ship it to the Santa Rose-based CannaCraft, where it would then be infused with THC and CBD and canned at its facility. What Lagunitas did right was create a product that is flexible enough to be adjusted to suit regulations widely and perform well regardless of formulation, enabling it to build its brand and customer base while integrating regulated ingredients where legal to remain compliant. Hemp Will Play A Key Role As mentioned, hemp is entirely legal across the United States, and in Canada, it is now regulated by the Cannabis Act and the Industrial Hemp regulations. The holder of a Canadian industrial hemp license is still required to produce from cultivars containing no more than 0.3% of THC but is no longer limited in terms of the use of the rest of the plant. This means that it is now possible to make products that also contain other cannabinoids like CBD. Hemp has a large number of uses for both food and topical products. In 2017, the Global Hemp Oil Market reached sales of $80.67 million, and this is expected to reach over $1.2 billion by 2026. This comes as no surprise to me. Hemp root oil is no longer regulated by the Cannabis Act in Canada and can now be produced and sold as a strong standalone product. Interestingly, hemp root oil can also easily be infused with THC and CBD, providing the opportunity to create a brand using hemp oil and to start building its culture, distribution, partnerships and customer base with hemp-based products, with the option to integrate appropriate amounts of CBD and THC where and when it is legal to do so. I believe that this product strategy can serve as a strong base for the next generation of cannabis topicals, offering products that benefit the skin with or without the addition of regulated ingredients. 