The International Energy Agency (IEA) has issued yet another upbeat forecast on U.S. crude production in its latest annual five-year oil market assessment, dismissing suggestions to Forbes that it is not factoring in natural rates of output decline stateside. On Monday (March 11, 2019), in a scheduled release the IEA said U.S. headline oil output will climb to 19.6 million barrels per day (bpd) by 2024 from 15.5 million bpd in 2018. It also noted the country's gross crude exports are "expected to double." What's more U.S. production is expected to account for 70% of the total increase in global output capacity by 2024, while total exports of crude and refined products should reach 9 million bpd, surpassing rivals Russia and Saudi Arabia.    "By the end of the forecast (2024), oil exports from the U.S. will overtake Russia and close in on Saudi Arabia, bringing greater diversity of supply," the IEA added. The projection comes despite claims, especially in academic circles, that given the unconventional nature of shale prospection, U.S. exploration and production (E&P) companies would be staring at a natural rate of decline in 5 to 7 years time from which they may not recover. However, speaking to Forbes on the sidelines of IHS Markit's CERAWeek 2019 conference in Houston, U.S., Dr Fatih Birol, Executive Director of IEA, said: "We take into account market conjecture on U.S. shale decline rates, as we do with any other production zone we monitor. It is a fallacy to suggest that we are sidestepping the issue of shale production decline rates. Quite the contrary we have been actively monitoring it. "I compare it to turning the wheel of a bicycle. U.S. E&P players, especially the independents, are expected to take measures to safeguard production levels as a cyclical market matures. The second U.S. shale revolution is coming. This will shake-up international oil and gas trade flows, with profound implications for the geopolitics of energy as the U.S. emerges as a major energy exporting nation." Birol also said he had heard such familiar arguments before. "But every year since 2012, we have predicted that U.S. output would be up on an annualized basis taking into account decline rate concerns, and we are at peace with it. If anything, we have ended up upgrading U.S. projections in recent years rather than the other way around." Earlier at a CERAWeek briefing, the IEA Executive Director said lighter, sweeter low sulfur U.S. shale crude fits new oil demand landscape as the International Maritime Organization's IMO 2020 ruling approaches. The IMO, a United Nations' body responsible for the safety and environmental performance of the shipping sector, has ruled that from January 1, 2020, marine sector emissions in international waters be slashed to reduce the sulfur emissions by over 80%, which can be achieved by switching to lower sulfur fuels. The current maximum fuel oil sulfur limit of 3.5 weight percent (wt%) is to be reduced to 0.5 wt%, and Birol reckons that's good news for lighter, sweeter American crudes requiring less complex refining. Elsewhere in its forecast, the IEA said non-OPEC supply growth will continue to be led by the US, "with significant growth also seen among other non-OPEC producers, including Brazil, Norway and new producer Guyana." It added that Iraq would reinforce its position as a top producer, becoming the world's third-largest source of new supply and driving growth within OPEC. The agency also forecast that global oil demand growth rates will ease as China's economy slows, but will still rise by an annual average of 1.2 million bpd to 2024, reaching 106.4 million bpd. And the IEA also doesn't see a peak in global demand yet or identifies with some Wall Street forecasts of production peaking between 2024 and 2030. "Despite all the hype of incremental usage of electric vehicles, we see no peak in oil demand, as petrochemicals and jet fuel remain the key drivers of growth, particularly in the U.S. and Asia, more than offsetting a slowdown in gasoline due to efficiency gains and electric cars," Birol concluded. 