Life in Venezuela is getting worse by the week. The ruling Socialists United (PSUV) have failed at every turn to improve the situation. With money running out due to increasing sanctions on banking activity within the dollar-finance system and blocks on PdVSA accounts from repatriating U.S. crude oil revenues, Venezuela is basically bankrupt. It has become less hospitable to its citizens. Only those with wads of dollar bills hiding in lockboxes are getting by. By every estimate, the migrant crisis out of Venezuela is expected to get worse. On Monday, videos of Venezuelans carrying jugs of water down by a riverside should serve as a testament to the fact that PSUV’s well, too, is running dry. On Tuesday, Washington requested all remaining diplomats to leave the country. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo used his press conference yesterday to take a jab at socialism now that his rival political party in the U.S. has embraced it. He said that “food is rotting, telecommunications networks are totally collapsing ... in Maduro’s socialists’ paradise.” Pompeo ordered government personnel out of the country on Monday and advised U.S. citizens there to avoid protest gatherings. The Venezuelan government, for its part, said that the diplomats were actually kicked out before hand. Protests have been a regular occurrence in Venezuela since 2016. They have increased since January when Nicolas Maduro was sworn in for a six-year term. He was immediately considered an illegitimate president by a group of Venezuelan Catholic Bishops, the Organization of American States and later by the Brazilian government. The U.S. recognized National Assembly president Juan Guaidó as the highest-ranking elected official. Guaido declared himself interim president in January. Venezuela’s economy is in a depression. The World Bank’s “Doing Business 2018” report ranks Venezuela third from last in terms of national business climate worldwide. Only Somalia and Eritrea are worse. Venezuela’s Act III Begins Guaido was on Trish Regan Primetime on the FOX Business Network last night where he blamed PSUV for the blackouts. Maduro blamed a U.S. cyberattack. The power outages have become the latest signal to Venezuelan bondholders that we have entered the final act of this tragedy. Venezueal bonds are all in default, except for the PdVSA 2020 bond. Some 20 deaths have been reported since blackouts began last Thursday, mainly in hospitals and not from violent crimes. Some of the remaining inventories of food are spoiling, and the payment system has largely collapsed. As a result, social unrest is increasing with looting more frequent outside of the big urban centers like Caracas. “Government weakness is increasingly evident,” says Alejandro Arreaza, a Latin America economist for Barclays Capital. “It has been unable to provide an update on the situation or a clear explanation of the cause of the blackout. School and work activities have been suspended. There is no clear indication of a time frame for the return of normal services,” he says. Beyond blaming the U.S., PSUV doesn’t know what to do with itself. Even if one assumes the attack really was due to a foreign actor, PSUV does not possess a modicum of military know-how to counter cyberattacks. Their whole operation is a tinderbox. The fact is that Venezuela’s hydroelectric dams and overall electrical infrastructure hasn’t seen investment in years. Moreover, of the roughly 4 million people who have fled the crisis, according to UN figures, it is safe to assume that many were qualified professionals working for the government. Now state-controlled companies are largely run by PSUV loyalists. According to a February Datanalisis poll, support for PSUV and Maduro are now at less than 15%. For a time, PSUV supporters were blaming Maduro for the crisis. Now the blame is squarely on both party and president. This week’s power outages have exacerbated the economic crisis. Seeing how hospitals and grocery stores need power to function, if the electric grid continues to flicker, then the humanitarian crisis will accelerate. There is no apparent fix in the works at this time. “This is an increasingly unstable (situation), and it just doesn’t seem possible that any political regime could survive,” says Siobhan Morden, a managing director for Nomura Securities in New York. To date, Maduro and PSUV have survived. The difference now is that sanctions are taking away much of the government’s source of cash, cash that is used to pay for extortion and other official corrupt practices that have kept Maduro in power. 