 Up 30% since January 1, U.S. WTI crude oil prices topped $60 per barrel on Wednesday for the first time since November 9 Prices were bolstered by a highly bullish U.S. inventory report. Crude oil stocks dropped by 9.6 million barrels, leaving analysts that had called for an increase of 309,000 barrels red-faced. This was the largest inventory decline since last July. And now at 439.5 million barrels, stocks are 2% below their five-year average for this time of year. The driving force behind rising prices has been the OPEC+ production cuts, a bloc that produces half of the world's oil. Pledged at removing 1.2 million b/d from the global market, the most recent compliance was reported at 90%. In addition, U.S. sanctions on both Venezuela and Iran continue to erode their capacity to supply. For example, at 500,000 b/d in December, our crude imports from Venezuela have fallen to zero. And Bloomberg reports that Algeria, which produces over 1 million b/d, is set to join a list of five OPEC countries (Angola, Nigeria, Libya, Iran, Venezuela) that already have unplanned declines in output "as a result of under-investment to offset natural declines, civil unrest, or sanctions." In February, OPEC's crude output stood at 30.7 million b/d, down from the peak of 32.8 million b/d in August. And pressured by Russia, OPEC announced this week that it was canceling its April meeting, so the decision on extending the cuts will not happen until late-June, just days before they are set to expire. OPEC's spare capacity, IEA now reports, has reached 2.8 million b/d and can cover more losses from Venezuela. The Saudi-Russia rift is apparent: to cover government spending oil-dependent Saudi Arabia needs crude to sell at $95, while more diversified Russia has a budget based on $4o. A rising U.S. dollar, however, remains a lid on crude prices. For reference, the Brent international benchmark price has been $8-10 higher than WTI for months now. This will continue to help U.S. exporters drain domestic inventories. Even with the trade row with China, crude exports have averaged over 3.1 million b/d during the past five weeks. Looking forward, the crucial question for prices will be whether the Trump administration will renew waivers that expire in early-May that allow eight of Iran's customers to keep buying oil from the sanctioned-nation. Another key development will be what happens with U.S.-China trade negotiations. A deal would be bullish because it would boost global economic growth and therefore oil demand. Optimistic just a few weeks ago, Trump is now saying that tariffs could stay on China for "a substantial period of time." Concerns over the global economy, however, have receded a bit after the U.S. Federal Reserve hinted that it may not raise interest rates this year. Helping to keep prices in check, U.S. crude oil production has been surging to records above 12.1 million b/d. Yet, for the first time in many months, EIA's most recent monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook lowered its 2019 and 2020 forecast for growth in domestic output. Up nearly 17% since this time last year, production has been surging so fast that a slowdown seems inevitable. Through all of this market chaos, there has been enough "negativity to temper funds from rushing into new long positions." Predictably, the "slowdown in oil demand" that so many bulls were worried about has proven to be overstated again. The irreplaceability of oil has remained crystal clear, with more demand a steady drumbeat. "Does The Price Of Oil Even Matter?" To illustrate, average annual Brent prices soared $17 in 2018 (+32%), yet global demand still increased 1.5 million b/d (~2%). Indeed, IEA reports that global oil storage dropped 30 million barrels in February to just below the five-year average. This is important because most market participants were expecting huge builds to start 2019. EIA has WTI at $56 and Brent at $63 this year, with global oil consumption rising another 1.5 million b/d 