For a couple of months now, I have been waiting for Washington to compare the ruling Socialists United of Venezuela (PSUV) to the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, a.k.a the FARC. The idea was that once the Trump administration had labeled the Venezuela political party as nothing more than the elected version of the FARC, they would use that as a more poignant way to describe what it is they already believe—that Venezuela is run by a criminal enterprise in Caracas. The PSUV is FARC comparison has not been made, even though both have been political allies for decades. But on Friday, the State Department sent out a press release that’s potentially just as troubling for PSUV. Washington is now saying that there are Americans in Venezuelan prisons. Following the arrest of National Assemblyman Juan Guaido’s staff official on Friday for “acts of terrorism,” these arrests will be used to make even louder human rights abuse claims against Venezuela. That means it will become even harder for PSUV to garner support from left-wing political parties and a dwindling number of media influencers in the U.S. and Europe.    President Nicolas Maduro’s judicial system has detained five dual U.S.-Venezuela citizens who are employees of Citgo, along with one U.S. legal permanent resident, for over a year without a scheduled hearing. “We understand these men are suffering from chronic health conditions related to their incarceration and inhumane treatment,” Robert Palladino, State Department spokesman, said in a statement today.  In another case, Venezuelan prison authorities have refused to release U.S. citizen Todd Leininger, even though a Venezuelan court ordered him released on November 5, 2018. “The safety and welfare of U.S. persons overseas is among the highest priorities of the Department of State,” Palladino said. While he did not elaborate on mistreatment, other than the prisoners not being allowed to receive additional food from family visitors, the statement today surely ratchets up the regime-change rhetoric from Washington. Immediately after Palladino’s statement was issued, the Office of Foreign Assets Control at the Treasury Department issued sanctions on the National Economic and Social Development Bank of Venezuela. This is the year Venezuela became a pariah state within the Americas. Maduro was sworn into his second six-year term on January 10. He was reelected in May 2018 but only thanks to the Supreme Court banning A-list opposition figures from running against him. Lower-level opposition politicians sat out the race, and Maduro and PSUV maintained their grip on power. Immediately after his inauguration, the Organization of American States, a group of Catholic bishops in the country and Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro all said they would not recognize Maduro as the head of the country. National Assembly president Juan Guaido, the highest ranking elected official after Maduro, declared himself the interim president and was swiftly supported in his claim by the U.S. Now some 50 countries consider Guaido the Venezuelan leader. Maduro isn’t having it. The more Washington attacks, the more fodder he has for his party and his dwindling number of supporters who believe that the only reason the country is in its third year of a Great Depression is because of the U.S. Each time the Trump administration clamps down on him, he sees it as more evidence of a “foreign colonial power” trying to undermine his government. PSUV has governed for nearly 20 years. Founded by the late revolutionary Hugo Chavez, the party has overseen the biggest destruction of national wealth in the entire region in the last five years. PSUV nationalized key industries. They absconded with and demonized private wealth, and quickly morphed Chavez’s so-called Bolivarian Revolution into their version of the Cuban revolution. Other than simply calling PSUV a criminal enterprise, the one goal of the party—to make Venezuela more like Cuba—is the one achievement they can chalk up thus far. With its oil wealth now sanctioned by the U.S., Venezuela is running on fumes.  Maduro and PSUV are like that Seinfeld episode where Kramer and a BMW dealer are driving on an empty tank of gas. Should we keep going? Kramer asks. He looks to the confused dealer, but they are both having so much fun pushing the limits that Kramer puts the gas pedal to the floor and guns it, the two holding hands in a high five shouting happily like Thelma and Louise heading fast down a road with nowhere left to drive. Maduro tightened his grip on his inner circle with a recent cabinet reshuffle. It won’t be enough to save a political class with almost no money coming in from its main trading partners. China and Russia won’t save them, having already thrown billions into PdVSA and Venezuela in general with little to show for it. Guaido remains in open defiance of Maduro, and now Maduro is losing support from the shanty towns and the poor villages that were key backers of Chavez.  The relevance of Venezuela may have increased with the State Departments note on U.S. citizens imprisoned there. The Colombian government is now estimating that the number of Venezuelan refugees in Colombia went from 1.293 million in December 2018 to 1.922 million in December 2019. The Organization of American States forecasts total migrants increasing from 3.4 million last year to as much as 8 million next year. The economic sanctions will start being felt as crude oil exports to the U.S. have stopped flowing since March 15 and Venezuelan Oil Minister Manuel Quevedo announced the suspension of crude sales to India this week, according to Reuters.  For Maduro, international support for Guaido is merely lip-service. What are they going to do about it? “The current strategy now focuses on the compliance of the economic sanctions (via diplomatic pressure) and the escalation of sanctions,” says Siobhan Morden, managing director at Nomura Securities in New York. That could mean more sanctions on Venezuelan companies and other financial institutions beyond the development bank sanctioned today, with no obvious contingency plans from Maduro to save its economy from that kind of fallout.   