Interestingly, there are still peak oil advocates who think that we’ve reached peak oil now, despite the fact that shale oil production is still growing, OPEC+ has about 1.5 mb/d of production shut-in due to weak prices, while Venezuela, Libya, Iran and Nigeria are all experiencing difficulties that have closed down temporarily 3 mb/d or more, much of which is likely to return to market in the next few years. Still Ron Patterson asks, “Was 2018 the peak for crude oil production?” and Gail Tverberg says, “Given the nearly worldwide problem of falling affordability of goods by non-elite workers, we should not be surprised if the peaks in oil production in October and November 2018 ultimately prove to be the maximum production ever recorded.” The former is merely looking at recent production trends, the latter believes that consumers can’t afford the prices producers need to invest in new capacity. Neither argument impresses me. More seriously, the IEA’s new five year forecast predicts that the “call on OPEC,” roughly world demand minus non-OPEC production, will drop for a year or two, then rise by 2 mb/d over four years. For old-timers, this is reminiscent of the “hockey-stick” forecasts seen for many years for oil prices, electricity demand, etc., wherein the forecaster could see weakness in the near-term, but further out expected strength. Most times, reality proved to be different.    To a degree, this is an example of what could be called the horizon effect, that is, assuming different behavior beyond the clearly visible future. Usually it means that the forecaster has a bias or underlying theory that drives their forecast beyond the point at which real world behavior can be seen. In the case of oil supply, this is an example where much of what is happening cannot be seen, but a pessimistic bias leads to pessimism in the forecast. I first commented on this back in 1987, in a conference paper titled, “The Underprojection of Non-OPEC Third World Oil Production,” which noted that nearly every forecast for oil production from non-OECD, non-OPEC countries showed a short-term increase, then a peak and decline. (The figure below shows DOE forecasts for this region from 1980 to 1994.) This puzzled me, since the level of exploitation in those countries was trivial and most needed oil revenue, which led me to conclude that this was result of neo-Malthusian bias, something I later noted began after the Iranian Oil Crisis, which caused many to conclude that oil was geologically scarce. James Schlesinger, for example, thought world oil production would never surpass 65 mb/d (it’s 100 now.) There’s a real there, there, so to speak. Early supply forecasting relied on elasticities, that is, if prices went up, so would supply by an amount to be determined empirically. This failed to work because higher prices led to both higher costs and more resource nationalism. On the other hand, simply adding up production plans from large companies or announced field developments didn’t work very well either, because there was a large amount of small scale work, mostly in existing fields, that added to oil supply but wasn’t very visible. No one has successfully modeled that to my knowledge, and many forecasters tend towards conservatism: if you can’t see it explicitly, assume it’s not there. This is most relevant beyond the immediate future, so that the horizon effect often means a hockey stock project: near-term increases followed by a decline. Examining the latest five year forecast from the IEA, some of this is obvious. While the forecast for non-OPEC supply has for years shown a rising trend, it has been regularly revised upwards, as the figure shows, primarily as U.S. shale production has outperformed expectations. However, it is also worthy of note that the Former Soviet Union has continued to produce increasing amounts of oil, and more than projected. Indeed, this follows the hockey-stick pattern more than the total for non-OPEC production, which is telling because the Russian upstream especially is less transparent than many others. Which implies that perhaps the IEA forecasters are subject to Malthusian bias when they predict oil supply, or are simply conservative when information is of poor quality. Needless to say there are many things that can cause future production to be below expectations, including heightened resource nationalism in countries like Mexico and Brazil, more technical problems in Kashagan, and of course, lower oil prices. But it is worth keeping in mind that predictions of declining oil supply are often driven by assumptions which can prove mistaken. If FSU production does not decline as the IEA expects, the challenge for OPEC+ will be significantly greater. 