Fresh off his success in stopping another Middle East regime change in Syria, Vladimir Putin is now setting up shop in Caracas. It’s not as simple as saying Russia has financial assets to protect. Rosneft, the state oil behemoth, has been throwing money down a black hole in Venezuela for years. So has China. The recent move to bring in more military support is designed to protect Nicolas Maduro from what Russia surely sees as an orchestrated coup against him. Russia’s Foreign Ministry confirmed that it sent military personnel to Caracas this weekend. Unlike the U.S. military, which was never invited by any government official into Syria, the Russia military at least has been. Maduro is now surrounded by his own military, Cuban revolutionaries and gangsters. And now some Russians. CBS News national security correspondent David Martin was reportedly told by his sources in Washington that around 100 people were on the Russian planes that landed over the weekend. And that it wasn’t clear what they brought with them. Russia has routinely sent military trainers, advisers and technicians to Venezuela, but 100 people—however they came up with that number—was considered more than routine, CBS News reported on Wednesday.    For his part, Vice President Mike Pence also called on the Russians to leave Venezuela. He said their presence was a “provocation.” The U.S. has been calling for Maduro to step down since mid-January. That's when the leader of the ruling Socialists United Party (PSUV) was sworn-in for a second six-year term. The Organization of American States, a group of Catholic Bishops in Venezuela, and the president of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro, said he was not legitimately elected. Maduro’s Supreme Court disqualified all of the leading opposition candidates from running. Minor opposition candidates either sat out the election in a boycott or tried their luck and lost on lackluster name recognition.  Maduro and PSUV have helped create a political and economic warzone in Venezuela. For the last five years, Venezuela’s economy has contracted substantially, with the last three being a full-blown depression. An estimated 4 million people have fled the country. Those who survive inside are either living on dollars hidden in safes and under their mattress, bartering or stealing. Hyperinflation is the order of the day. Major industries have all been nationalized. Oil giant PdVSA is on Russian and Chinese life support. All of their bond issues except for the 2020 issue are in default. The U.S. has banned repatriation of crude oil receipts from PdVSA sales here. After April 28, PdVSA is banned from selling crude oil to the U.S. Power went out again in Venezuela on Tuesday, the second time in less than a month. Maduro quickly blamed the U.S., his favorite punching bag for the economic disaster he has governed over since the death of PSUV founder and leftwing revolutionary Hugo Chavez. National Assembly president Juan Guaido continues to be the liaison between Washington and official Venezuela, but his powers are limited at home. He has managed to get a changing of the guard of Embassy figures abroad, but in Caracas, Guiado6s just an Assemblyman in the big scheme of things. The National Assembly has had its legislative muscle greatly atrophied since Maduro benched the entire body and created the Constituent Assembly instead, a group of PSUV party hacks willing to go along with Maduro. With Guaido unable to move the needle on military support for the president, and with PSUV firmly of the mind that protests are CIA creations, the true leadership of the country is digging in. Money is running thin, but the government receives enough from oil sales elsewhere, extortion and other criminal activity like drug trafficking, according to the Treasury Department. That said, PSUV can hold on by the skin of its teeth and govern over a failed state. With Putin putting his foot down on regime change—something he clearly sees as American political interference and arrogance—the U.S. will be hard-pressed to help orchestrate a real overthrowing of Maduro. Whether Maduro lasts six more years in office is unclear. But barring a military overthrow, or a “come to Jesus” moment on the part of Maduro and PSUV, Venezuela’s future is exactly as Chavez saw it: a bigger version of Colombia, where the government is in total control, the opposition is smeared, imprisoned and distrusted, and the only private wealth is the wealth taken by the government and kept for themselves. If Putin is as successful at protecting Maduro as he was at protecting Assad, then Venezuela’s Cuban dream becomes a reality. For Putin, if that’s what Maduro wants ... then that’s what Maduro should have. The serious question, therefore, is whether Washington will allow Caracas to spend the next six years turning itself into Havana. 