It’s been nearly two months since the United States recognized Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido as the country’s interim president and imposed sanctions to push Nicolas Maduro toward the exit. U.S. economic sanctions have ratcheted up pressure on Maduro, leading to the blackouts that recently deepened the country’s humanitarian crisis, cutting off power to hospitals and exacerbating water and food shortages. The U.S. Treasury Department placed sanctions on Venezuela's oil sector in January and imposed new sanctions on Venezuela's gold mining sector this week, denying Maduro billions of dollars in export revenue and compounding the growing economic crisis in the country. Despite the United State's stranglehold on Venezuela's economy, Maduro still enjoys the support of his country’s military. The United States and Venezuela are now looking at a prolonged stalemate, a possibility I warned about back in January, unless President Trump is willing to take additional steps to oust Maduro. Breaking the stalemate won’t be easy, but the Trump administration has a few tools available before the military option is the only one left. The crisis in Venezuela’s electricity sector could be the straw that breaks the back of the Maduro regime, but Maduro may still need an additional push. Sanctions have effectively stopped around 500,000 barrels a day of Venezuelan crude exports to the United States, its top market, from state-owned Petroleos de Venezuela (PDVSA). But the current sanctions still allow Caracas to divert those barrels to other buyers. The net result is that until recently, when blackouts disrupted oil output, Venezuela’s oil production had stabilized at 1.2 million barrels a day in February, according to the International Energy Agency (IEA). That’s sufficient oil revenue for Maduro to hold onto power, even if he’s being forced to sell those barrels at a discount. The existing sanctions prohibit American companies from importing Venezuelan oil and prevent most transactions with PDVSA to be conducted in U.S. dollars, but they aren’t as strict as U.S. sanctions on Iran, which bans anyone buying Iranian oil from the U.S. financial system. As it stands, buyers can still purchase Venezuelan crude with non-U.S. currencies. The next move by the Trump administration is likely a shift to the “Iran model” of sanctions that targets potential foreign buyers of Venezuelan crude. Recent statements by U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo support the idea of using so-called secondary sanctions to close gaps in the sanctions that allow Venezuelan crude onto the market. India – PDVSA’s third-most important customer behind China and Russia – has agreed to stop importing Venezuelan crude and to halt exporting diluent – a product PDVSA needs to blend its heavier, sour grade of oil to allow it to be exported – to the country. China, meanwhile, continues to import Venezuelan oil as repayment for past loans, an arrangement that won’t stop anytime soon. But China has also indicated it will prioritize trade talks with the United States over flaunting Washington’s sanctions on both Iran or Venezuela. China has massive investments in Venezuela and continues to support the Maduro presidency. but the recent slowdown in the Chinese economy due to the U.S. trade war is a far more significant concern for Beijing than the fate of the South American nation. From this perspective, the Trump administration may be able to lean on China to cut back its dealings with Maduro. Russia has emerged as Maduro’s biggest benefactor and continues to throw lifelines to the regime. Venezuelan oil minister and PDVSA boss Manuel Quevedo has said his country will divert oil initially bound for the United States to Russia or other countries. Meanwhile, Russian gasoline, diesel and diluent are headed to Venezuela. It’s difficult to imagine a scenario where Russia cuts off aid to Maduro. The United States is now mulling additional sanctions on Moscow for interfering with the 2016 elections. While unnerving to the Kremlin and Russia’s major foreign oil investors, including BP and Royal Dutch Shell, Russian President Vladimir Putin has shown few qualms about thumbing his nose at the United States. All this points to the potential for an extended stalemate that allows Maduro to hang on to power. Trump could try to drive a wedge between Maduro and the military by offering amnesty to top generals in exchange for their defections, but most of Maduro's inner circle are already compromised to the point of no return. Trump continues to say "all options are on the table" for removing Maduro, while maintaining that a military intervention is not his first choice. With his re-election on the line, Trump may decide he has no choice but to hurry Maduro off the stage soon to avoid Venezuela becoming an unwanted foreign policy distraction during the 2020 debates. 