Is Brexit a national scam and a “fear mongering” example for the rest of European (EU) bloc of member states from which the British people ‘Voted Leave’ in a referendum three years ago, but in the end remains within the EU? With the Brexit delay handbook being in full force it might look that way. Certainly it looks like chaos right now. And, comments from one senior EU negotiator last Wednesday describing a vote by U.K. MPs to block a no-deal Brexit in any circumstances as a meaningless move and “the Titanic voting for the iceberg to get out of the way”, pretty much sums up matters some would say. Others may beg to differ in what may look like a real rodeo ride. If nothing else, there have been so many opinions expressed in three years (around 1,000 days now) since the U.K. referendum on continued EU membership, it is hard to know what to make of it all. As the politicians argue it out, the British public are getting restless. There could even be riots on the streets if Article 50 is revoked and Britain eventually stays in the EU. Now with just days to go before the official date of exiting the EU - Friday, March 29 - the possibility of a No Deal is a distinct possibility. Officials in Brussels have given the U.K. an extension, but with strings attached. Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, raised the stakes on Wednesday March 20 in warning that an extension of Article 50 for Britain would only be agreed only if MPs in Westminster agreed to British prime minster Theresa May’s deal on the withdrawal agreement (the third iteration). That has opened up the very real possibility that Britain could leave without a deal. Nevertheless, Tusk stated just prior to an extension being granted that the hopes of a deal now seemed “frail, even illusory”, but added that the EU would not give up - with an emergency summit in Brussels potentially being convened at the end of this week. That would be a matter of hours before Britain had been due to leave, to contemplate offering the U.K a far longer extension. Industry 4.0: Fourth Industrial Revolution Some, however, say such an outcome could benefit the tech sphere largely, given that “Industry 4.0”, a name ascribed to the current trend of automation and data exchange in manufacturing technologies (e.g. including cloud computing, the Internet of Things (IoT) and cognitive computing), is a hot topic for governments and can influence their GDP. The European Parliament has published a 10-page paper titled “Industry 4.0: Digitalisation for productivity and growth” (September 2015), in which it noted even back that “observers believe that Europe is at the beginning of a new industrial revolution, considered to be the fourth such leap forward and hence labelled Industry 4.0.” The paper stated: “Industry 4.0 may help to reverse the past decline in industrialization and increase total value added from manufacturing to a targeted 20% of all value added by 2020.” But in order to grow the technology as an enabler to society and industry, a relaxed regulatory frame needs to be provided, which the U.K. is seen as already offering. “With “No deal” this would enable the government to negotiate trade agreements for British tech companies to penetrate the global marketplace,” Lee Grant, a blockchain industry protagonist and British national has argued. Common Market 2.0 & Norway Option But given that Brexit negotiations have got bogged down there has been talk of alternative ways forward (or Plan B). One such alternative vision is has been referred to as “Common Market 2.0” - known as “Norway Plus” by Michel Barnier, the EU’s chief Brexit negotiator. Some have ventured to say it is the only alternative plan that might win a Parliamentary majority. But surely has time virtually run out. Well, only this Tuesday (March 26) Tory MPs George Eustice and Robert Halfon wrote an article in the Evening Standard (“We’ve been lost for so long - but all roads must point to Norway”) and rejoining the so-called “EFTA pillar”, a process they indicated would require “no long implementation period.” (Note: The four European Free Trade Association (EFTA) Member States are Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland. It was set up in 1960 by its then seven Member States). Referring to alternatives - including a second referendum and revoking Article 50 - to be discussed by MPs in the House of Commons this Wednesday (March 27) and the sometimes called “Norway option” wrote: “We believe the settlement that most closely reflects that collective national mood would be for the U.K. to leave the EU, repeal the 1972 European Communities Act but remain a member of the looser European Economic Area and rejoin the European Free Trade Association (EFTA).” Later today sees an unusual process taking place in Parliament, with the use of “‘Indicative Votes”, a method last used in 2003 in an effort to reform the House of Lords, which derived no clear consensus. The hope is that it may yield a workable path this time around. While the outcome is not binding on the government, but the PM is looking for a majority to push through a workable plan, the options that could be on the ballot paper (voted on at 19:00 GMT, March 27) are thought to include: (1) Customs Union; (2) Re-opening the Withdrawal Agreement; (3) The EFTA and EEA models; (4) People’s Vote; and, (5) Revoking Article 50, the latter the default option of leaving the EU without an agreement in place remains, albeit a few weeks later than the original Brexit date of 29 March 2019. (Note: There were in fact 8 motions on in the Indicative Votes - see full result here). Trade Agreements 3.0 And, the there are some economic pundits who have been are arguing that we should be discussing “Republic 3.0”- or “Trade Agreements 3.0” - and the digital economy.Whilst Trade Agreements 3.0 might not be entirely accurate, it is broadly where the U.K. is right now. We perhaps need also to look forward to “Trade 4.0” landscape. As British and EU officials play tit for tat with what could be regarded in some quarters as posturing and fake negotiations, the U.S./China trade war has hit the headlines and many are clearly concerned across the business sector and industries? Or are they? Academics have pointed out that there are no winners from trade wars. China’s Silk Road, which is also referred to the One Belt One Road (OBOR) or the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st-century Maritime Silk Road, is driving forward regardless - across over 65 countries and a trillion or so dollars of investment - linking Asia, Africa, the EU, the CIS (the 10 post-Soviet republics in Eurasia) and South America, bring states together and closer for trade. But have you ever asked yourself how many government officials does it take to make chaos on Brexit and shift global economics? Well, 27 EU Members, and mostly over the Irish border. One of the largest issues for the Brexit since as neither side can be rational in the past three years is the Irish Border (and the Backstop). But surely it should not be the biggest issues to resolve and there is technology available to address the matter. Some like Grant, co-founder of the Digital & Distributed Technology Moldova Association (DTMA) and joint Chairman of the Silkroad Economic Forum, have posited that it can be easily resolved in two ways, namely either by: * Option 1: Virtual border managed via digitization; or, * Option 2: Northern Ireland becomes a giant Special Economic Zone, which could potentially attract billions in investment and create thousands of jobs. Special Economic Zones There are already Special Economic Zones being created globally and these can all be linked together. Grant asserted that a No Deal is the “best opportunity for Britain regardless of the post-Brexit ricochet” and companies moving out to other European nations. Britain, he said has the “opportunity to hit reset” and become a “leading benchmark for the global digital trade”, opening up markets that are more profitable and beneficial than the EU bloc. “The U.K. has the experience and infrastructure to reposition itself in the digital global trade arena going forward,” he added. Questions & Answers So are there many question amid the ensuing confusion, with some potential answers. But can Britain really successfully strike out on its own and are there any silver linings? It's hard to see them right now. But wait a minute, haven't we been here before? Well, just a few months back on Forbes in regard to the economic impact of Brexit on the British economy and the digital opportunity from it and fintech and Blockchain technology, I penned a piece on it potentially coming to the rescue of the economy. Brexit’s impact has been estimated by the likes of the OECD and Bank of England as putting a 3% dent in the nation's GDP by 2020. Other economic modelling Canada's Ciuriak Consulting and non-partisan EU think tank Open Europe, albeit from 2015, pointed to a low single-digit percentage impact plus or minus on GDP. The best case scenario from this analysis was put at +1.6% in GDP terms by 2030, if the country managed to enter into liberal trade arrangements with the EU and the rest of the world - whilst pursuing large-scale deregulation at home. But a far more realistic range was pencilled in at between a 0.8% permanent loss and a 0.6% permanent gain in GDP in 2030. But that would be “in scenarios” where Britain mixes policy approaches. The verdict from Open Europe back then that it “will not be an apocalypse and it will not be a utopia.” Their Brexit II report, which covered its impact in terms of trade, immigration, regulation and competition, suggested that there would be “a small negative economic result from Brexit.” And, in the long run it would probably in the region of +0.5% to -1.5% of GDP in the long run, according to Open Europe’s 70-page paper on the subject. However, that “presumes a reasonable trade agreement is struck between the U.K. and the EU”, they noted. However, even with their best modelling efforts to produce their final report (“What if...? The consequences, challenges and opportunities facing Britain outside the EU”), some things cannot be accurately modelled and variables do exist, noted Dan Ciuriak, the Ottawa-based economist who lead the research from the Canadian side. The OBOR Project Well, now the OBOR Project - taking inspiration from the Silk Road itself - is being touted as potentially providing a benchmark for U.K.’s departure from the EU and the direction that the nation can travel in and target. The protagonists behind the project say it represents a “significant threat” to the EU bloc. But then I guess they might. OBOR consists of a dozen countries that are former commonwealth countries (members) such as Pakistan, Sri Lanka to name a few. But China is also investing heavily into Africa, a continent where the majority of nations are former Commonwealth members. According to a report in The Daily Telegraph in September 2018 China’s President Xi Jinping publicly pledged in Beijing some $60 billion in financing for projects in Africa in the shape of assistance, investment and loans. This was as China sought to further bolster efforts to link the African continent’s economic prospects to its own. Mr Xi, speaking to African leaders, said the figure encompasses $15 billion in grants, interest-free loans and concessional loans, as well as $20 billion in credit lines, $10 billion for what was described as “development financing” and some $5 billion to purchase imports from Africa. Additionally China would encourage companies to invest “at least $10 billion” in Africa over the following three years. And, in Europe, China has been on a march with the Shanghai Lingang Overseas Development Co., Ltd. investing €85 million in Zeebrugge inner port (Maritime Logistic Zone) in May 2018, which few people outside the Low countries probably even noticed. This was to establish a service and distribution park under the name “One park, two centers China/Europe.” Professors George S. Yip and Bruce McKern’s recent book ‘China’s Next Strategic Advantage: From Imitation to Innovation’, which looks at the transformation and proposes strategies for both Western and Chinese companies, is a must read for those wanting to know more about China’s expansion into Europe and the U.S. All that said, the element though that is going to be the “largest obstacle” for the OBOR project (inspired by the One Belt Road and Xi Jingping’s initiative to connect China into the global marketplace for imports and exports, etc.), will according be the digitization of the Silk Road across all these countries and variable legislations, Grant explained. And, the Briton contended that “let's not forget the corruption” that is linked to matters around these matters. Over the past year Huawei has hit the headlines relating to alledged spying for the Chinese state, debt entrapments such as related to Sri Lanka and its ports, and how the “West only sees risks of China’s influence globally.” “The U.K. could with a ‘soft’ approach and leveraging the tech and investment sphere of Britain as a global leader in exporting digital services under the World Trade Organization (WTO) rules and common laws across zones [economic zones] paved the way forward for the nation post Brexit," posited Grant. He added: “The simplest and softest approach is to evaluate each market and compare to its neighbours and not go in forcefully. And, neither should the U.K. use the proposal of foreign aid as this does not result in the greatest outcome as each market has its own specific requirement(s).” Digitization Initiatives & Silk Road Economic Forum There are already several initiatives going forward around digitization leveraging Industry 4.0 and blockchain technology, special economic zones and the Silk Road Economic Forum (SREF). SREF’s initiatives are focused around Industry 4.0 and the 17 pillars of technology that are impacting every aspect of our daily lives. “The focus of SREF is to educate and promote Industry 4.0, but it is not just about technology,” explained Grant. “While technology is what we enable, it is also about people and change...as the biggest attribute people have is the ability to adapt and change. And, that is how we influence economies, social inclusion and growth.” Commenting further in light of this ventured: “Why couldn't such initiatives transform economies of [former] Commonwealth Members post Brexit for the U.K. with a No Deal departure?” A Safety Net Post Brexit? The Briton remarking on a post Brexit world said: “If we ever leave the EU the technology start-ups and companies need to take the lead into the global marketplace - from AI to cybersecurity and IoT and DLT - without waiting for the government to create trade deals. And, that is why the focus should be on OBOR and the Commonwealth members as they are the emerging markets and consumers in the decades to come.” But saying this, OBOR countries are the clients today due to the Digital Silk Road requirements and expansion. The founders of SREF, which started in summer 2018 and is based out of Switzerland for neutrality, are Lee Grant and Henrik Von Scheel, the latter dubbed the “Godfather of Industry 4.0” who has served at various Boards including IBM, Gazprom and Google. The Forum itself is centered around the Silk Road initiative and the 4th Industrial Revolution (4IR), which aims to bring attention to challenges that affect the future of global economic trade. “Essentially it works as a catalyst for global initiatives, historic shifts, industry breakthroughs, economic ideas as well as tens of thousands of projects and collaborations,” Grant pointed out. The SREF Industry 4.0 Investment fund is targeting what is described as “Competitiveness” along the Silk Road, with sub funds covering the 17 so-called "Pillars of Industry 4.0." SREF plans to organize two events later this year. The first will be annual meeting to be hosted in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), which will also target the Silk Road Maritime route. A second meeting will be in the shape of a smaller regional Industry 4.0 forum, which is to be hosted in the Republic of Moldova. The choice of Moldova is explained as its geographic position in Europe and sitting on the crossroads of the silk road. Geographically centred between the CIS, EU, CEFTA (Central European Free Trade Agreement), FTA (Free-Trade Area) and GUAM (the Organization for Democracy and Economic Development that comprising four post-Soviet states of Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, and Moldova, means that Moldova is strategically well positioned to trade with over a billion people. The Government is also driving to promote its ICT Sector and industry opportunities. Currently the nation’s main export opportunities lie in agricultural and wine. It is understood that there has been no objection letter lodged from the Ministry of Economy and infrastructure for the regional project of E-Gagauzia in the so-called Autonomous Territorial Unit of Gagauzia in Moldova, to digitize a Free Economic Zone as a test case for Moldova and to be used a benchmark on the global stage. Watch this space. 