North Korea has yet again slipped through the United Nations sanctions net designed to curb Pyongyang’s nuclear and ballistic missile testing. The UN measures are aimed at restricting the DPRK’s access to world energy markets. Fifteen months ago, the U.N. Security Council (UNSC) limited North Korean petroleum imports to 500,000 barrels per year and imposed an export ban on North Korean coal – a major source of government revenue. A March 5, 2019 UNSC report details the extent to which Pyongyang has gone to evade these restrictions, including fraudulently registering ships under the flags of Panama, Guatemala, and Sierra Leone and engaging in illegal ship-to-ship (STS) oil and coal transfers.    According to the UNSC findings, between 1 January and 30 May 2018, tankers of the DPRK had called at ports of the country at least 89 times, likely to deliver refined petroleum products illegally procured via ship-to-ship transfers including Chinese crewed vessels. The report continues: China, North Korea’s largest trading partner, is suspected of aiding and abetting the Kim Regime in evading UN energy sanctions; it would not be the first time. The reasons for Beijing’s involvement are twofold. First, China accounts for some 90% of North Korean exports, and the economies of its border regions rely heavily on bilateral trade. Second, Beijing has a vested interest in keeping its volatile neighbor stable: regime collapse in Pyongyang would mean a gain for the U.S., Japan, and South Korea; an unmanageable influx of North Korean refugees for China; and the demise of a critical buffer state between the PRC an and U.S.-backed South Korea. China’s historic support of North Korea goes back to the 1940s when Mao Tse-Tung convinced Stalin to send communist troops to attack South Korea under the command of the current Kim’s grandfather. After three years of bloody fighting, with the United States and United Nations troop coming to the aid of anti-communist South Korea, the war ended in an armistice. No peace treaty has ever been signed. Scroll forward. When $1 billion worth of UN sanctions were announced against Pyongyang in 2017 in response to aggressive NoKo ballistic missile tests, China spiked its imports of cheap North Korean coal just before the deadline. That August China purchased $138 million worth of the commodity when monthly averages typically hover under $90 million. While China did participate in a trade halt with Pyongyang that year, it was short lived – ending just months afterward. In 2018 Chinese firms were caught conducting business with sanctioned North Korean counterparts. For Beijing, stability on the Korean peninsula is a key strategic security and foreign policy goal, as the alternative would have them share a land border with democratic and unified Korea. Today, South Korea is currently home to around twenty-nine thousand U.S. troops and marines. Jennifer Lind of Dartmouth College argues, that “while the Chinese certainly would prefer that North Korea not have nuclear weapons, their greatest fear is regime collapse.” Beijing also benefits from Pyongyang being an irritant and a distraction to Washington. If Kim didn’t provide the drama, Trump would be coming after Xi with fire and fury. For China, despite the erratic and unpredictable nature of the Kim regime, the status quo is the most palatable scenario. That is, of course, unless the United States greatly reduces its presence on the peninsula -- an unlikely scenario despite the Trump White House’s vocal opposition to U.S. military commitments abroad in places like Syria, Afghanistan, and Europe. Despite China’s continued geoeconomic and geopolitical interest in the DPRK, there is no hiding the downward trend in bilateral trade volumes. In 2018 trade hit its lowest level in almost a decade: Chinese imports from North Korea plummeted by 88% to $209 million, while exports dropped by 33%. Notwithstanding past ebbs and flows in the trade between Beijing and Pyongyang, a decline this dramatic is unprecedented. China certainly does not need its southern neighbor as much as North Korea needs the PRC, and Beijing could be now be using this discrepancy to remind Kim of the prevailing power dynamic. Ultimately, China wants to ensure that it will play a pivotal role in any resolution on the Korean Peninsula, continue economic relations with North and South Korea, and protect its own national interests. While questions remain about Beijing's ability to sway Pyongyang's behavior, the recent resumption of top-level talks between the two regimes on the eve of the Kim-Trump summit underscores China’s importance. Washington has tried to pressure Beijing to leverage its economic influence over the North with limited success. Given the poor state of bilateral relations between the two superpowers, including rocky trade negotiations, we can expect China to continue to play a ‘spoiler’ as it did in Hanoi last month, using North Korea as a bargaining chip going forward. However, experts say that the pattern of Kim-Xi meetings serves to enhance Pyongyang’s negotiating position with Seoul and Washington. For Xi, his closer ties with North Korea also help China in managing its relationship with the United States, demonstrating that Beijing could be the key mediator in brokering the elusive denuclearization deal while maximizing its power. For now, buying Kim’s coal and facilitating illegal petroleum trade will remain key tools of Chinese diplomacy with North Korea. Just one more stone in China’s grand geopolitical game of Go. David Pasmanik and James Grant contributed to this piece   