When the bond prospectus for Saudi Aramco came out earlier this week, there was a lot of excitement because the public finally got a look at some of the financial numbers behind the world’s most profitable—and previously the world’s most secretive—company. The financial news was impressive, but not surprising. The headline was that Aramco made $111 billion in net income in 2018, by far the most in the world. But that was not the most important information in the prospectus. The true secrets relate to the relationship between the company and the government, an absolute monarchy currently in transition 87 years after its founding. The company is owned by a single shareholder, which is sometimes described as the king by Aramco employees and often described as the government by the company hierarchy. The company has traditionally done favors for the monarchy at expense to the company, and it has funded the monarchy and country as well. It is believed that for much of Saudi Arabian history, the company provided almost all of the country’s revenue.    At the start of 2017, Aramco instituted a new fiscal regime to standardize the books according to International Financial Recording Standards. At the same time, the government decreased the tax on most of Aramco’s income to 50% from a whopping 85% and began reimbursing the company for some of the many and costly favors the company does for the government. In 2017, the company and government also, for the first time, formalized legal documents that govern the company’s operations and structure. It is believed that these changes were made in anticipation of and preparation for a possible initial public offering of the company. That IPO has been delayed, but it is still be expected in 2021.  Here are some of the important details we just learned about the relationship between Aramco and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia : The entanglement between Aramco and the Saudi government is still complicated. Understanding both party’s interests is essential to assessing the future health and prosperity of the company. 