By Andrew Vitelli and Colin Leopold The US shale revolution of the past decade, which saw American drillers dig deeper and longer than Russia and the Saudi-led OPEC cartel, has transformed the country into one of the world’s great oil producers. But what about the infrastructure behind it all? Getting oil and gas out of the ground is just the first step. Taking it to market – be it domestically, across the Mexican border, or overseas – requires pipelines, gathering and processing facilities, and export terminals. Tens of billions of dollars is needed annually just to keep up with the sector’s infra needs. And according to the latest research from Inframation – an Acuris publication – it is now US-based mega infrastructure funds that are picking up the bill. Blackstone Infrastructure Partners, a vehicle based in New York and backed by up to $20 billion of Saudi capital, made a splash in January with its $3.2 billion buyout of Tallgrass Energy, which transports oil and gas from Wyoming and Colorado to US markets. This week, Stonepeak Infrastructure Partners, a New York-based firm backed mostly by US pension funds, topped that by agreeing to pay $3.6 billion for Permian-focused Oryx Midstream, the second biggest infra buyout of a pipeline firm, according to Inframation data. “[Infrastructure funds] see the long-term value of these midstream companies," says Mollie Duckworth, a lawyer at Baker Botts. “Having a more patient capital structure makes sense in the current market.” Decline of the MLP Recent years have seen a dramatic change in the way these midstream oil and gas infrastructure assets are owned and financed. Infrastructure funds, which look to park capital long-term and expect modest but stable returns, have emerged as some of the largest equity investors in the companies. In 2015, six deals worth around $4 billion were carried out by infra funds in US midstream, according to data from Inframation Deals. By last year, the number had risen to a whopping 26 deals totaling more than $20 billion. The opportunity for these infra and private equity funds has come about for a variety of reasons. For the first half of this decade, growth in the midstream sector was dominated by the publicly traded master limited partnership (MLP) model, a structure deemed flexible and tax-friendly at the time. “It was all Rich Kinder’s fault,” says Chris Ross, a retired professor at the CT Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston. He is referring to the chairman of pipeline giant Kinder Morgan, who revolutionized the use of the MLP as a growth vehicle for pipelines. And MLP-linked growth was impressive: between 2003 and 2013 an index for the sector advanced at twice the rate of the S&P 500 Index. “Once they came up with a growth business model, the only way they could keep up with it was to go back into the market to get more equity and more debt,” says Ross. “And I think that they went overboard.” The MLP structure started to crash and burn in 2014, when oil prices tanked, and capital markets tightened. President Trump’s subsequent reduction of the US corporate tax rate – from 35% to 21% – made the MLP’s tax structure even less appealing. Taking and paying Oil and gas pipelines, which are typically backed by take-or-pay contracts in which the infra-owner gets paid even when the customer takes less commodity than previously expected, fit the bill of a typical infra asset with predictable cashflow and stable returns. Unlike exploration and production (E&P) companies, midstream assets are generally insulated from swings in the price of oil. When oil prices dropped in 2016, rating agency Fitch reported 18 high-yield energy companies with bonds filing Chapter 11, but not a single midstream firm. But the recent surge in deal activity may not be completely immune from risk. Gathering and processing (G&P) firms are also part of the midstream segment and have begun making their way into infra fund portfolios. For some in the sector, this is a cause for concern. While some G&P systems have minimum volume commitment (MVC) agreements, similar to a take-or-pay, others rely on acreage dedication contracts that are more exposed to commodity risk. “There has just been this blurring of the lines in midstream between private equity and infrastructure,” Brandon Freiman, KKR’s head of North American infrastructure, said at Inframation’s Infrastructure Investors Forum: Americas conference held earlier this year. That is not the only worry. Many of the current wave of projects are built based on lofty upstream production expectations – perhaps too lofty. The Permian Basin has emerged one of the two most productive oilfields in the world, along with Ghawar in Saudi Arabia, but that has not been enough to match some projections. This might not spell disaster for investors, but with midstream buyouts in the Permian now regularly clocking in at up to 18x EBITDA, the next trend to watch might be one of disappointing returns. “I do think we will continue to see strong production growth in the Permian,” says Kathleen Connolly, a Fitch analyst. “But I don't think that it can match prior expectations.” Andrew Vitelli, based in New York, covers M&A and writes features for Inframation. Colin Leopold, based in London, is a features editor and writes features globally for Inframation. Inframation is a sister product to Mergermarket under the Acuris umbrella. Inframation provides real time financing, trading news and data for the global infrastructure and energy sectors.