Norway’s $1 trillion government-owned investment fund will redirect monies it has earned from oil and gas investments and place them instead in clean energy projects. The Government Pension Fund Global said Friday that it will now invest as much as $14 billion into such deals.  While oil and gas shareholders have different objectives than green energy investors, the strategy by Norway’s sovereign wealth fund is to combat climate change while creating value and being good stewards of the money. At the same time, the added allocations in low-carbon projects will help reduce both the costs and the barriers-to-entry in the green tech space.  “Well-managed infrastructure investments bring returns of 12 percent to 15 percent annually, with investments in renewable infrastructure producing steady, stable returns that exceed expectations,” says the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis.     As for Norway’s investment fund, its managers said in March that it would divest of 134 companies that develop oil and gas, including such companies as UK-based Tullow Oil, Premier Oil, Soco International, Ophir Energy and Nostrum Oil & Gas, says the Guardian, although it will retain positions in Royal Dutch Shell and BP because they have renewable energy divisions. Norway’s finance minister said that is because the fund wants to reduce its exposure to a “permanent oil price decline.”  Roughly $6.5 trillion is invested using such environmental, social and corporate governance criteria in the United States, according to US SIF. The amount is about $26 trillion, globally. That’s according to Climate Action 100+, which says that companies focused on the triple bottom line — economics, environment and social — are outperforming other broader indices and they are also demonstrating that they are living their missions and ingraining their brands among their customers. What effect is this having on the major oil companies? Oil and gas will remain their pillars because those endeavors generate greater returns than do those in the green energy sphere. But those conglomerates are experimenting with clean tech investments as a way to generate safer returns as well as a way to stave off their critics who emphasize that they have spent far more funding front groups that deny manmade climate change than on investing in sustainable energy.  “The renewable energy market is highly competitive and fragmented, returns on investments are typically lower than in oil and gas, and the average investment is much smaller in size,” says consulting firm Wood McKenzie. “The Majors may want to look towards mergers and acquisitions, developing offshore wind, or solar PV in emerging markets, in order to find a competitive edge and be able to deploy sufficient capital to grow in the sector.” Fundamental Shift Oil and gas companies spent 1.3% of their 2018 budgets on such things as wind and solar power or battery storage and carbon capture. And the CDP, formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project, said that Europe’s Equinor, Total, Shell and Eni ranked highest for leading the low-carbon transition while China’s CNOOC, Russia’s Rosneft and U.S.’s Marathon Oil lagged further behind. Good news is lurking: Since 2016, 148 deals have been made in alternative energy and carbon capture, CDP says. Since 2010, $22 billion has been invested alternative energies. And, 15 of 24 oil and gas companies it surveyed now have climate targets, with Repsol, Shell and Total having the most ambitious ones.  “The shift to a low-carbon economy presents the question of what role oil and gas companies will play in this transition, and what their strategic options are in the more immediate and longer term,” Luke Fletcher, senior analyst at CDP said. “Equinor’s recent rebrand to a broad energy company, expecting to invest 15%-20% of (its capital expenditures) in new energy solutions by 2030, is symbolic of this shift.” Big Oil has come under intensive scrutiny from investors, climate activists and state attorneys general, forcing it to become more transparent about how it values its climate risks while also doing more to curb its CO2 releases. That dynamic is part of what is behind this move to diversify their portfolios and to accept their role in human-caused climate change. But their strategies are also premised on the fact that they are major natural gas developers, which is seen as a cleaner alternative to coal for electricity generation.  That is why Chevron, ExxonMobil Corp. and Occidental Petroleum have joined the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, all with an eye toward putting a value on each ton of carbon released as well as developing the technologies to capture carbon and to reduce methane leaks. The companies say that they will create an investment fund starting with $100 million to go into such efforts. BP, Shell, Statoil and Total also back a carbon tax.  To conclude that Big Oil has reached an epiphany would be faulty. But it is an explicit recognition of green energy’s role in the New Energy Economy while it is also serving to restrict the industry’s antipathy toward climate causes. Norway’s sovereign wealth fund is a prime example of a market mover shedding riskier investments and acquiring newer and cleaner ones in the name of diversification and good governance. If the oil companies continue to invest in green energies and clean technologies, those projects would attract more capital and proliferate worldwide.  