One of the great energy security benefits that the U.S. shale revolution has provided us for petroleum, still easily our main source of energy, is the need to rely less on OPEC. It's a huge advantage for our country that continues to go mostly ignored. Since the shale-era took flight in 2008, U.S. crude oil production has surged 140% to 12.1 million b/d. In turn, U.S. oil imports from OPEC have been sliced in half to less than 3 million b/d.    Imports from Nigeria, for instance, are down 85% to just 180,000 b/d, with the country having its own major production problems and inconveniently selling the lighter oil that has been overflowing from our shale plays. Saudi Arabia though has led and accounted for 30% of all U.S. OPEC imports. Back in 2007, before the shale-era, OPEC supplied 30% of the oil that we consumed. In 2018, OPEC supplied less than 15%. The U.S. oil boom is why we have been able to put sanctions on rogue leadership in high oil producing nations Iran and Venezuela without crippling the global market. Although the "NOPEC bill" circulating on Capitol Hill today is misguided, there is no doubt that lowering dependence on OPEC enhances our oil security and moral standing in the world. OPEC is widely viewed as a cartel, and the bloc is full of "not free" nations as ranked by Freedom House. The good news is that friend, neighbor, and democratic Canada has filled in quite nicely for OPEC, with exports to the U.S. up 75% in the shale-era to 4.3 million b/d. Canada now supplies over 20% of US oil demand, double its share from a decade ago. Canadian oil has also helped rescue us from the collapse in Mexico's oil production, cut in half since 2004 to below 2 million b/d. I knew I was right: "Canada is North America's Great Oil Security Blanket." This "Canada displacing OPEC thing" is of very high importance of course because U.S. oil demand is not falling like some want you to believe. What I call "buoyantly very high demand" is an inconvenient reality for some pushing other products. At 20.5 million b/d, U.S. oil demand in 2018 was the highest it has been since 2007 - and the fifth highest on record. U.S. oil self-sufficiency would be higher but pipeline bottlenecks and refinery constraints are blocking us from lowering imports even further. Long overdue, however, U.S. oil exports should start to regularly surpass imports starting next year. 