Executive Summary: The world will continue to to rely on fossil fuels for most of its energy needs. Political, economic, and technological realities make it impossible that advances in solar and wind technologies could work a wholesale shift in energy sources in just a matter of decades. However, environmental activists, convinced that they can alter this reality, often deploy dubious strategies to thwart promising fossil fuel development projects. A recent example of how this process has evolved is the invocation by the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe of two international agreements concerning indigenous people’s rights to halt the Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL). This paper reviews the flaws underlying the SRST’s legal claims. The two documents are the United Nations Declaration of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2007, and the so-called Equator Principles, which guidelines financial institutions can adopt voluntarily before making loans for large projects with potential adverse effects on the environment and welfare of indigenous people. The SRST wrongly interprets both documents as licenses to disregard on the bedrock principles of fairness and reciprocity they are supposed to enshrine. The SRST cites two provisions of the UN Rights of Indigenous People to claim effective veto authority over DAPL construction. One is Article 19 which stipulates states must consult and cooperate in good faith with indigenous peoples in order to get their consent on public policies that may affect them. The other is Article 32, which declares that indigenous peoples have the right to determine priorities and strategies for the development or use of their lands or territories. The U.S. is not a signatory to the UN Declaration, and thus not bound. But even if the UN Declaration is taken at face value, its effect is more limited than indigenous groups commonly claim. That document is based on the “parity principle,” which is meant to establish good faith, informed consent, and mutual respect between UN states and their indigenous populations. The SRST’s persistent actions repudiate its core ideal that good faith is always a two-way street. Safeguarding the rights of indigenous peoples does not convey to them veto power on any pipeline or other major capital project, any more than it gives that power to any nation state. There is no balance between contending parties if the claims of indigenous tribes are always postulated to be superior to those of nation states and other interested parties. The parity principle requires all stakeholders to define carefully the scope of possible impacts and corresponding risks of a project. In this case, pipelines connected with the DAPL project have been in operation for extended periods of time without incident, and there is no reason to believe that the continued operation of DAPL poses immediate or long-term threat to the SRST’s lands. Generally, pipeline transport of natural gas and oil is demonstrably safer and more environmentally friendly than alternatives such as rail or truck transport. The tribe’s categorical denunciations of pipeline safety and its dishonest and exaggerated assertions about risks unconnected to the scope of a project are not objections raised “in good faith.” Interestingly, Article 32 provides for effective mechanisms for just and fair redress in the unlikely event that pipeline activity requires mitigation of adverse environmental, economic, social, cultural or spiritual impacts on indigenous lands or resources. This obligation to correct past errors underscores that good faith cooperation will control any remote risk that in fact occurs. After balancing all risks and benefits, energy infrastructure projects can go forward given the fixed commitment to redress any supposed harms to indigenous groups. Ironically, in this case, if the SRST had been able to halt the DAPL, that ostensible victory would work against their stated goals, by creating added risks to tribal lands from increased oil and gas shipment by rail or truck. Article 46 of the UN Declaration confers on each nation or tribe the right to control their own internal affairs. But that Article does not confer on them an absolute right to threaten the territorial integrity and economic interests of another state, territory, or tribe. The second document, the so-called Equator Principles, lays out standards and processes to guide banks in making loans for large projects with possible adverse effects on the welfare of indigenous peoples, climate change, biodiversity, and human rights, and other systematic risks. It is, of course, wholly proper for the signatory banks to enter into business arrangements consistent with the Equator Principles. But the SRST’s interpretation of Equator Principles strikes the wrong balance in two critical ways: The SRST, for example, did not participate in good faith in the hearing process set in place to let SRST members and the broader population or work with the Army Corps of Engineers and state public utility commissions. Instead, the Tribe used patently false claims and disruptive protests to slow down a project beneficial to millions of people. Advertisements that invoked Equator principles and they called for banks to stop funding unspecified “environmental disasters,” falsely said to threaten rights of indigenous people, without once acknowledging that DAPL is the safest and most environmentally option available. Instead of cooperating with a thorough and transparent public hearing process, the SRST has turned to protests that grew into sprawling and unruly operations. The Morton County Sheriff’s Office reported over 180,000 hours of response time at a cost of $22.3 million. Most of the protesters were from out of state, and many had a history of violent activities or criminal records. The right to protest peacefully is, and should be, constitutionally protected, but peaceful protests do not include burning cars, using threats of force against company or government personnel, or blocking access ways into the construction sites. In fact, those actions should subject the SRST to liability under the tort law for the willful destruction of property. In addition, the U.S. legal system has long treated as a legal wrong any conduct that amounts to an “Intentional Interference with contractual relations with a third party.” The Army Corps of Engineers spent $1.1 million in public funds to haul away 835 dumpsters of trash and debris after thousands of protesters finally left the site. The SRST deserves little credit for contributing to the clean-up of a mess that it should have never help create in the first place. The SRST’s persistent assertions of indigenous people’s rights raise question about the U.S. government’s responsibility for redressing past grievances and offering protection against future ones. In fact, the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 was enacted with these considerations in mind. Its requirements were observed scrupulously throughout the extensive approval process for DAPL. That legislation, like the international protocols discussed in this paper does not grant tribes, when acting in the absence of good faith, an unqualified veto power over new pipeline construction. Pipeline projects are capital intensive activities, with high and irreversible costs. They require long periods of gestation, and they are subject to layers of regulatory guidelines and public scrutiny. Necessarily, they vulnerable to political risk, which multiply as activists become more adept and aggressive at using the thinnest pretexts to disrupt and block project completion The dubious exploitation of the legal process, the misrepresentations, and the often violent and destructive nature of the protests of DAPL, do not help indigenous people to safeguard their lands from destruction. Instead, these incidents let small factions of environmentalists and their allies disrupt and stop energy projects, with utter disregard for the principle that good faith engagement in public permitting processes must be a two-way streets. The development of alternative energy sources is likely to be slow and fraught with risk. It is therefore incumbent to make sure that spurious claims of indigenous rights not be used to block fossil fuel projects. Slowing down needed projects will not address any issue of climate change, but it could do much to frustrate the economic development needed to improve the lot of all peoples around the world. __________________________________________________________________________________________ The Indigenous Peoples War on Pipelines Good faith standards apply to both the supporters and opponents of new pipeline construction. For the foreseeable future, it is clear that the dominant source of energy for both the United States and the world will come from fossil fuels, chiefly in the form of oil, natural gas and coal. Throughout the world, many groups will push hard for massive subsidies to wind and solar energy. Nonetheless, that attempt, no matter how bold, will fall far short of shifting the overall balance of energy production. The overall economy is and shall remain heavily dependent on fossil fuels, as renewable sources, including nuclear, solar and wind constitute only a small fraction of the total. Fossil fuels are the only viable long-term source of energy for ground, air, and sea transportation. The technology driving these energy sources has become ever more efficient in recent years and will continue to do so, thereby reducing the amount of pollution of ordinary energy use. It would take decades to convert these entire fleets to non-carbon sources, if it that Herculean task could be done at all. In the overall landscape, the alternative sources of energy like wind and solar are destined to remain fringe players no matter how rich the subsidies showered in their direction. The fatal drawback for these two sources of power is their lack of storability. Solar works when the sun shines. Wind works when breezes blow. These feast or famine phenomena often provide energy when it is not needed, and fail to provide it when required. A complex system needs 24/7 reliability, which wind and solar cannot provide, so that political efforts to put these renewable sources first only produce legal mandates that are economic busts, and pie-in-the sky proposals, like that found in the Green New Deal (GND), for 100 percent of the United States’ energy to come from “clean, renewable, and zero emissions” energy sources are dead-on-arrival. Nor should one ever ignore the harmful side effects from these alternative sources of power. Wind turbines create low-level nuisances, kill birds and eagles in large numbers, and are visual distractions. Solar panels have to cover up hundreds of acres of land to generate minimal amounts of energy. Both systems require extensive transmission networks to get them from places where the wind blows or the sun shines, to places where they are needed. No one should want to ban these technologies or otherwise stifle their development. Both are highly labor intensive for the small amounts of energy they produce. Taken as a whole their success or failure must be judged by the same environmental standards applied to fossil fuels, which include accounting for major externalities from all sources, including those, like lignite, which becomes an oft-used secondary power source when both wind and solar fail. Given these fixed facts, the major challenge of today’s sound energy policy is to find ways to make the production of fossil fuels cheaper and safer than they have ever been. Fortunately, private-sector innovation on these issues has paid off handsomely, so that the total social cost of fossil fuels has trended sharply down, and shows every indication of continuing to do so. The point is especially true with respect to fracking, given the large cumulative improvements in every stage of the production process. During the years since 1950, increases in carbon dioxide emissions have been about fivefold, but, as Marlo Lewis has demonstrated, it is difficult to link these emissions to any current global dislocations given the massive increases in life-expectancy, crop yields and wealth, and similar declines in deadly diseases. The current scientific record offers no support for any claim that increases in CO2 emissions are an immediate threat, notwithstanding the copious claims to that effect in the GND. Indeed, global temperatures declined 0.56 degrees Celsius between 2016 and 2018 for the largest two year drop in the past century—an event that has gone largely unremarked in the popular press. Notwithstanding these basic fundamentals, many groups raise fierce political resistance to the use of fossil fuels in the belief that it could contribute to dangerous levels of global warming or pose threats to the livelihoods and daily routines of indigenous people who live and work, often in close proximity, to the many facilities that produce fossil fuels or the pipelines that transfer them over hundreds of miles. By definition, a pipeline cannot be confined to a single area. but must cross hundreds of miles through multiple jurisdictions in order to bring crude oil from remote oil fields to key refineries or reshipment points, where they can then enter either local or global markets. A long supply chain of this sort is only as strong as its weakest link, so the opponents of fossil fuels have systematically sought to get just one of those many governments to shut down these pipelines at their most vulnerable points, in order to place a powerful, if indirect, pressure to curb production of fossil fuels. No one should be fooled about these various attacks. They are not about pipeline safety. They are disguised efforts to shut down the production and use of fossil fuels, no matter what the consequences. In this post, written on behalf of the Grow America’s Infrastructure Now Coalition (GAIN), I shall address one part of this larger battle, namely the use by indigenous tribes of two key legal documents in order to slow down the construction and use of pipelines to ship fossil fuels. The first of these is the United Nations Declaration of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2007, which the United States voted against. The second are the so-called Equator Principles that address the standards and processes that signatory banks must use before making loans for large projects with possible adverse effects on the welfare of indigenous people. In both cases, these indigenous groups have attached to these documents extreme positions intended to bolster their legal position, none of which are sustainable on closer analysis. They are quick to claim that these documents impose onerous obligations on others, but slow to recognize the correlative duties that they impose on themselves. Yet the principles of good faith and nondiscrimination that lie at the core of both documents are two-way streets, as the following analysis demonstrates. UN Rights of Indigenous Peoples Perhaps the central provisions of the UN Declaration (to which the United States is not a signatory) are found in Articles 19 and 32: Article 19 States shall consult and cooperate in good faith with the indigenous peoples concerned through their own representative institutions in order to obtain their free, prior and informed consent before adopting and implementing legislative or administrative measures that may affect them. Article 32 In dealing with these provisions, indigenous tribes often claim the only phrase that matters is that which requires states to obtain their “free prior and informed consent before adopting and implementing legislative or administrative measures that may affect them”—language that is picked up in the GND. Put in naked form, indigenous tribes claim a veto right over any and all projects that take place anywhere, which is far more extensive than the rights that any nation-state has in its relationships to projects undertaken by other states. There are multiple objections to wresting a single phrase out of context. The first is that it ignores the initial phrase in Article 32(2) that states “shall cooperate in good faith” with indigenous people. This phrase is wholly unnecessary if the indigenous tribes are given an unconditional veto right over various activities, for at that point it does not matter how states behave—indigenous people can always say no to any and all proposals. In context, the clear sense of the Declaration is that the duty to bargain in good faith only requires that nations make accommodations with various indigenous people before undertaking their projects. But principles of good faith in contract law and elsewhere are always reciprocal. Good faith is a two-way street. It cannot be that I have the duty to bargain with you in good faith, but you do not have the correlative duty to bargain in good faith with me. At that point, the ostensible good faith obligation to bargain becomes a disguised campaign for abject surrender. The exact contours of any good faith negotiation are often difficult to state in advance, but it surely requires at least two elements: the first deals with topics that are subject to that duty. The second has to do with the reciprocal nature of the obligations between the bargaining parties. First, there are necessarily some issues that are not subject to bargaining at all. Section 19 gives indigenous people a voice before nation-states adopt or implement legislative or administrative matters “that may affect them.” There is some sense in which all things done by anyone necessarily have some effect on the lives and/or property of everyone else, however distant or improbable. The term could not be read, however, to say that an indigenous tribe is in a position to block the planting or growing of crops anywhere in the world because it may influence the price they have to pay for these crops. The only way to prevent these absurd extensions to all matters great and small is to limit, at a minimum, the application to those matters which have some direct, immediate, and serious negative impact on other individuals. And even that requirement is not sufficient to restore the proper balance between rival claimants. Second, the duty to deal in good faith requires the willingness of all parties to be open to making at least some concessions and accommodations. Translated into this context, it means that indigenous peoples have to accept risks from various projects. That obligation is not as arduous as it sounds. Thus, in connection with pipelines, indigenous tribes are dealing in bad faith when they insist on blocking pipeline construction when it is incontrovertible today that shipment by rail or truck, and even existing pipelines, poses a greater risk to tribal activities than the proposed alternatives, including risks to tribal water supplies and sacred monuments. It is also to act in bad faith to continue to claim serious dangers from the operation of pipelines, even after, as is the case with the Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL), they have been in operation for nearly two years without any adverse effects. Good faith requires that a party tamp down on its objection to other activities when new evidence demonstrates the falsity of their claims. Speaking more generally, in making good faith objections to certain activities it is never sufficient to point to some abstract risk that could take place in some unspecified manner at some unspecified time. For those objections to be in good faith, they must point to some local condition that need correction. It is never possible to make any changes in response to objections that certain activities are inherently risky so that they should never be undertaken at all—no matter how small that risk is in practice. Categorical denunciations of pipeline safety never suffice to raise good faith objections. A second limitation on the rights of indigenous tribes is also in found in the overriding purpose of the UN Declaration as articulated in Article 2 which reads: "Indigenous peoples and individuals are free and equal to all other peoples and individuals and have the right to be free from any kind of discrimination, in the exercise of their rights, in particular that based on their indigenous origin or identity." The operative purpose here is to make these peoples “free and equal to all other peoples.” It is not to give them rights to block the activities of other states, or, indeed, of other indigenous tribes. Similarly, the second portion of Article 2 rightly states that indigenous people should be “free from any kind of discrimination,” but that phrase also creates tribal parity with, not tribal superiority over nation-states. That parity principle never lets one state block the production and distribution of either nation-states or other indigenous people within their own territories. Nor does it prevent these states and tribes from agreeing to joint production of fossil fuels or their shipment across the state borders of the signatory parties. If that veto power were given to all nation-states, all industrial production would cease, plunging the world into massive poverty. The nondiscrimination principle imposes similar limitations on the ability of any indigenous tribe to exert powers beyond its own borders. This parity principle is also consistent with the guarantee of territorial integrity found in Article 46 of the UN Declaration: "Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any State, people, group or person any right to engage in any activity or to perform any act contrary to the Charter of the United Nations or construed as authorizing or encouraging any action which would dismember or impair, totally or in part, the territorial integrity or political unity of sovereign and independent States." This provision, in effect, allows each nation or tribe to control their own internal affairs. That power does cover ordinary industrial activities. What it does not cover are actions that are taken within one state that do not threaten the territorial integrity of another party. A threat to that integrity arises when there is a substantial risk that pollution or oil leakage will move across territorial boundaries. But it is never sufficient, either among states or with indigenous tribes to block activities elsewhere without a demonstration of some immediate threat, especially, as noted, for pipelines in operation for some extended period of time without incident. It is equally clear that the UN Declaration does not require the impossible in accident prevention, because Article 32 (3) independently provides full and fair redress be made for harms that have already been caused, and to take mitigation to prevent further adverse effects. These compensation and mitigation provisions would be wholly unnecessary if the UN Declaration allowed either tribes or states to stop activities outside their territory simply by alleging some minimal level of background risk that is part and parcel of all industrial operations. In this regard, it is important to stress that shipment by pipeline is always far safer than shipment by rail or truck. The former takes place in a controlled and highly monitored environment. The latter takes place in an open and shifting environment where unanticipated forces outside the control of the shipper could lead, as they have led, to major oil spills and similar disasters. In addition both trucks and railroads release in normal operation far more pollution than pipelines. It is therefore a source of much regret that the lack of pipeline capacity has required oil and gas companies to turn to both trucks and rails to get their product to market. Viewed in context, the UN Declaration mimics the way in which the general principles of nuisance law, as found in both common law and civil law systems, seeks to deal with the full range of potential risks. Injunctive relief is routinely awarded in cases of actual and imminent harm. These injunctions are flexible, so that they can require acts in mitigation of potential losses, without shutting entire facilities down. And they allow for damage actions to provide the redress needed once the harms occurred. It is hardly a form of illicit discrimination to afford to all indigenous people the same protections that are afforded to nation-states and to their own citizens and residents. And the available protections do not support any blanket and unsubstantiated attacks on pipelines on the grounds that they pose some undefinable threat to water supplies or sacred monuments. These standards have powerful implications that help explain why the torrent of protest against various pipelines are seriously misguided. The key observation is that all pipelines first move crude oil through their own territory, where the host nation has every incentive to keep them small. The indigenous people are typically exposed to the pipelines at a distance, when the crude oil is shipped near, but not through, their territories. In those few cases where they do cross tribal lands, the need to meet uniform pipeline safety standards typically exposes indigenous peoples only to minuscule risks that are no greater, and probably less, than the risks of nation-states that ship that crude oil through their own territory. Indigenous people are thus able to free-ride off the imperative need of pipeline builders to meet the highest standard of safety, to safeguard their own protection, to avoid fines and liabilities for domestic spills. The uniform safety standards offer full protection against spillage risks. There is nothing in the UN Declaration that allows any indigenous person to demand others halt pipeline construction as of right, without meeting all the substantive and procedural safeguards that are implicit in the UN Declaration. Equator Principles The second set of principles that must be placed in proper perspective are the so-called Equator Principles of June 2013, which “apply globally and to all industry sectors.” By their terms, key financial institutions world-wide have acceded for setting a “financial industry benchmark for determining, assessing, and managing environmental and social risk” in new major projects. It is, of course, wholly proper for these banks to enter into these business arrangements, which if properly formed and applied, could prevent any unnecessary damage to “climate change, biodiversity and human rights.” And it is wholly proper for each bank to make its own interpretation of whether these conditions have been met in connection with any given project. Even with this voluntary arrangement, it is important that the basic framework be put together in a fashion that does not cause more harm than good, given the ever present risk that the cumulative cost of compliance with these principles could price needed development projects out of the market, or subject them to unseemly delay for social hazards that should be immediately addressed. Yet just this risk is created in the way in which these principles are implemented. The most critical element here is to make sure that the stated procedural guarantees and substantive provisions do not make matters worse, for wrong decisions, either way, are likely to cause serious harms in poor countries and communities whose limited access to resources leaves them more vulnerable to adverse consequences than modern nations. Bjorn Lomberg has put together a list of urgent projects dealing with health and safety that promise huge returns to indigenous and poverty stricken people alike, given the insufficient provision of basic necessities in these areas on such matters as sanitation, clean water, indoor and outdoor pollution, disease control, and nutrition are often at a low ebb. As he has written in the Wall Street Journal, these projects yield far more attractive returns than uneconomical investments to deal with global warming. It is commonly, but incorrectly assumed that matters in this regard are getting worse. However, the overwhelming scientific evidence on this point indicates that the advances of undeveloped nations has, as Johan Norberg powerfully demonstrated in his book Progress, been the greatest when modern medicine and technology is introduced into areas in desperate need of them. It is far from clear that the Equator Principles do what is most needed—allow for the rapid improvement through sensible infrastructure products that could eliminate these scourges. All procedures necessarily impose these delays. Those delays are welcome when they slow down the advent of ill-advised projects, but they can spell the loss of life, economic progress, and well-being when they are applied to those projects that have a great urgency about them. Any requirement, for example, that all major projects receive under Principle 7, (an independent review before being undertaken) is a double-edged sword: costs are raised, delays are imposed, and trivial improvements suggested, without any assurance whatsoever that the new regime has a higher social return than the more expeditious project, even on the contestable assumption that the new inputs improve the overall situation instead of, as is often the case, throwing sands in wheels of progress. The same remarks apply with equal force to any effort under Principle 6 (to impose a grievance system that allows any party to raise an objection to the process, however dubious without any sanctions at all, even, it appears, that the objections are raised in bad faith). It is not wise therefore to allow any fringe group to invoke these to slow down new projects that are desperately needed by others. Yet that risk is vastly expanded when these procedural obstacles can be invoked by the few in order to block the advances to the many. It is no answer to this objection to say that “vulnerable” areas and people need greater protection. There are always two kinds of error—moving slowly when speed is required, or moving too rapidly when caution is required. In vulnerable societies both risks may well be greater. But by the same proposal, given the lower baseline it is more likely that the risk of delay poses the greater risk, so that it becomes perfectly responsible to undertake projects within the means of developing nations even if they do not quite meet the safety standards applicable in more developed companies. The best should never be made into the enemy of the good. The second difficulty arises with the metrics used for dealing with these cost-benefit analyses. Every new project carries with it the risk of untoward consequences, which are rightly included. But it is every bit as important to recognize as benefits the elimination of alternative hazards to the indigenous population. The more backward the social situation, the more likely it is that there is a net social gain by removing large and certain hazards even at the cost of creating new and smaller ones. The Equator Principles therefore strike the wrong balance to the extent that their evaluation focuses exclusively on the significance of ‘adverse consequences’ without ever taking into account the dangers that are curtailed or eliminated. Yet it is just this myopic approach that dominates the use of cost-benefit review under the National Environmental Policy Act, which requires under U. S. law a reckoning of the consequences of these new developments. The safety of new pipelines relative to existing modes of transportation is so great, that the correct sequence in all these cases is a strong presumptive improvement for any project that follows state-of-the-art techniques through various domains. There are several deleterious consequences from this approach, which I have examined here. One major flaw in the current approach is to demand individuated considerations of every aspect of each project, without taking advantage of the standard practices used in the construction and operation of the pipelines. It is even more foolish to keep this approach given that pipelines have long useful lives, so that any current protocol should incorporate in an orderly fashion the newer standards that are used to monitor pipeline risk—which will surely emerge with the advent of 5G technology. The Equator Principles with their negative orientation include all the retrograde policies that have undue influence today. The second flaw relates to the standards that can be brought to the review of these projects, whether through informal or formal means. The common attitude is to afford well-nigh complete discretion to any decision that denies approval, or imposes conditions, on new developments. As these projects are always complex, any system of strict scrutiny will lead to cancellation or delays of projects for alleged single flaws, no matter how minor. Yet once an approval is granted, the current American practice is to reverse field and to allow the opponents of the project to raise minute objections against a project in order to derail it completely, without any showing of a serious or substantial risk. The Upshot with DAPL: Dealing with violence, trespass, obstruction and defamation. The intensity of the political campaign against DAPL is well captured in this headline published in all caps: EQUATOR BANKS, ACT! STOP FINANCING CLIMATE DISASTERS RESPECT INDIGENOUS PEOPLES’ RIGHTS AND TERRITORIES. There are no particulars to support this charge. But the statement does list the Dakota Access Pipeline as the first of these disasters, without documentation or explanation. Given what has been said above all of these charges are demonstrably false. DAPL is safer than all the other pipelines that run through the same area, as is evident from this graphic: Note the cluster of older (and more dangerous) pipelines closer to the surface and to Lake Oahe. To date, there has been at most negligible leakage all along the pipeline after nearly two years of operation. Indeed, the probability that any leak from the pipeline operation could reach, let alone damage any territories of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribes is infinitesimal. To see why, consider this: Shipment by pipeline has long been regarded as the safest mode of transportation for oil and gas. A 2015 study by the Fraser Institute found that “rail is found to be over 4.5 times more likely to experience an occurrence when compared to pipelines.” Further, the data reveals that “only 17 percent of pipeline occurrences take place in actual line pipe, meaning that the vast majority of spills occur in facilities, which may have secondary containment mechanisms and procedures.” They are not likely to occur en route as they pass by Standing Rock Sioux Tribe (SRST) territory. In addition, the levels of safety have constantly improved. DAPL incorporates the latest of these devices, and can be upgraded as future technologies come on line. Thus in the course of any given year, the likelihood is that there will be a very small number of leaks, if any at all, releasing a relatively small number of barrels of oil. One attack on DAPL notes that during the first six months of its operation, there were five oil spills, the largest of which was a 168-gallon leak. But the story proves the opposite, for that amount hardly qualifies as a disaster, and it certainly does not indicate any territorial invasion on the one hand or violation of rights on the other. The best estimate of probabilities show the weakness in any case to shut down DAPL for safety reasons. The chances that some flaw in DAPL will cause a major leak, thousands of times larger than the largest leak ever reported, in the 10-mile segment near to the territory of the SRST is as close to zero that anyone can imagine, let alone predict. Under these circumstances the correct rule is to allow the pipeline to remain in operation, but to require that DAPL get insurance or post bond against any particular loss and engage in prompt clean up. All of these sensible steps are now in place for the entire pipeline, so that every allegation in the quoted headline is not only undocumented but false. The case against DAPL is still weaker in light of all the obstructionist efforts to stop DAPL before it could be put into operation. As I have documented in great detail the various abuses in this process in a number of Forbes articles, including here, here, here, and here, it is not necessary in this context to give a blow-by-blow account of the multiple actions that the SRST took to obstruct the completion of DAPL at every stage of its operation, many of which are detailed by Judge James Boasberg in his exhaustive opinion on September 9, 2016 on the subject, starting with his initial approval, and followed by his measured concerns in a subsequent opinion of March 7, 2017. In addition, the Obama administration did all in its power to frustrate the enforcement of Judge Boasberg’s order by refusing to enforce its terms first in September, and then in December 2016. SRST has of course the right to raise every objection it can against the completion of the pipeline, but it does not have the right to make its case by the kind of demonstrable falsehoods in their material that I quoted above. Like all other parties that invoke the UN Declaration, it is under the correlative duty to cooperate with the administrative and legal processes put in place to resolve these disputes. Yet the bad faith of SRST is evident in its persistent refusal to participate in any of the public utility proceedings that gave approval to DAPL at the state level. All efforts to get SRST to engage in discussions before the Army Corps of Engineers produced no useful suggestions of how the pipeline construction might have been improved. And once it became clear that the legal approvals would be obtained, other steps were taken to sidetrack the construction process, including the protracted sit-ins and demonstrations that often turned violent. Thus, the Morton County Sheriff’s Office issued an official tally of the activities in the region, which noted over 180,000 hours of response time at a cost of $22.3 million, with 556 protesters, 95 percent of whom were from out of state, many with a history of violence and criminal records. The right of any parties to protest peacefully is, and should be protected, but peaceful protests do not include burning cars, using threats of force against company or government personnel, or blocking access ways into the construction sites. Nor for these purposes is the question of whether the police used excessive force in response to these activities. The sole concern here is with the conduct of the SRST, which remains illegal even if the law enforcement and the judiciary provided a less than ideal response to the overall problem. Nor is it a sign of good to create a huge mess at the protest site that required the Army Corps of Engineers to expend $1.1 million in public funds to haul away 835 dumpsters of trash and debris when thousands of protesters finally left the site. It is scant consolation that the SRST contributed something to the clean-up of a mess that it should have never created in the first place. On another front, it is of course permissible for Tribe members to lobby banks in an effort to get them to stop financing these projects. But it is not proper to use false statements like the ones quoted above to reach that end, by denouncing projects as disasters, without once mentioning that the Army Corps of Engineers and the state public utilities commissions held full and exhaustive hearings in conformity to law, before giving their approval to their construction. Falsely overstating the risks of these projects in order to to deter these banks from making pipeline loans is not consistent with the obligation to address potential grievances in good faith. In fact, those actions are covered under Tort Law. Specifically, the U.S. legal system defines this conduct as “Intentional Interference with contractual relations with a third party.” In this case, the protesters are actively and deliberately interfering with the contractual relations between a pipeline developer and a financial investor. Their efforts to pressure financial institutions to back out of their valid and existing contractual lending obligations to midstream pipeline companies is conduct that falls squarely under this basic doctrine of tort law. That conduct is often varied in form, but it does include efforts of widespread media disinformation campaigns like the one referenced above. It is, of course, for the particular companies in question to decide whether it is wise for them to pursue these strong claims in court, given the inevitable hazards of litigation. But whether they choose to sue or not, the illegal nature of many of these protest activities should be brought to bear in the court of public opinion, for it is imperative that projects that promise so many benefits to investors, consumers, and producers not be derailed by these misleading and often illegal activities. Pipeline projects are capital intensive activities that require long periods of gestation. They are thus always vulnerable to political risk that could block their completion years after the initial investments were made with heavy and irreversible costs. The longer delays, higher costs, and legal uncertainty lead to lower levels of service from pipeline projects benefit no one. Finally, it is important to put the charges raised against the pipeline companies in a larger perspective. One constant refrain raised in the DAPL incident refers to the historical injustices committed against various tribes in an earlier period of American history. Many of these charges are surely true, but they are not relevant to the examination of this or any other particular project. The question of redress for past grievances and protection against future ones is a proper matter for legislative judgment, and Congress has responded in part to these issues by the passage of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, whose provisions were scrupulously observed during the extensive approval process before DAPL was approved. That legislation, moreover, does not provide tribes with a veto power over new construction, parallel to that claimed by the aggressive interpretations of the UN declaration, but it does demand that these matters be taken into account in any deliberation, which they were. Speaking more generally, it is important in any particular deliberation to focus on the merits of that dispute. No project of any sort will ever be finished in a timely and expeditious fashion if the entire history of relationship between the various tribes and the United States is fair game to relitigate in each setting. What is needed in these cases is a clear recognition that on contentious issues, that good faith obligations run in both directions, which means that the manifest benefits that new pipelines provide relative to any other method for the shipment of oil has to be a central part of the overall discussion. It is surely the case that SRST and other tribes should be concerned about their water supply and their historical monuments, which are as vulnerable to conventional spills as to any possible spill from DAPL. But it is also surely the case that these concerns can be fully and adequately addressed in the ordinary administrative process. The persistent banning and delay of pipelines not only is a manifest disservice to the millions of individuals who depend on them for cheap and clean energy. It also increases the risk of the very kinds of spills and adverse incidents that all groups on both sides of the dispute should be anxious to prevent.