Gasoline prices at the pump have risen steadily throughout the first quarter of 2019, and that naturally causes consternation among consumers who feel the financial pain each time they fill up their tank. The average nationwide retail price for regular gas closed at $2.69/gallon on April 2 according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), up from $2.27 when the price fell to its recent low on December 31, 2018. Anytime we experience a rise of 18% in the price of any commodity, it is going to be noticed by consumers. This is especially true when consumers view the commodity in question as being a necessity rather than a luxury item, which is certainly the case with gasoline. So it is no surprise that consumers are writing letters to the editor and calling into talk radio programs on which I regularly appear to express their concerns about the "high" gas prices. But how high is the current price at the pump, really? That's all a matter of perspective. For example, when compared to a year ago, the current price is actually a penny lower than EIA says it was on April 2, 2018. It would probably surprise many consumers to be reminded that, from March 1, 2010 through December 1, 2014, a period of more than four and a half years, the price for regular gasoline was never lower than what we are seeing today, and in fact spent the vast majority of that time period well above $3.00/gallon. And that's in nominal dollars, not adjusted for inflation. In real, inflation-adjusted dollars, the price for regular gasoline has only sporadically been lower than it is today at any time during the last 15 years. In fact, EIA keeps this data going all the way back to 1976, and during that 43-year period of time, our current average gas price is actually in the lower end of the range of real prices. So, there's some perspective for you, but that probably still won't make an 18% rise in pump prices feel any better for most consumers. Part of that is due to the short-term memory focus that most Americans are increasingly experiencing in modern times, and part of it is also the fact that a confluence of factors combined to take retail prices down to unusually low levels over this past winter. After all, as noted above, the current price is essentially unchanged from a year ago; thus, had prices remained steady throughout the last 12 months, consumer attitudes about them would most likely be entirely different. But over the winter, the combination of a brief crash in the price of crude oil, combined with the lower refining and transportation costs we always experience during colder months resulted in a 20% drop in retail prices during November and December. Where I live near Fort Worth, some stations were selling regular for as low as $1.70/gallon for a few weeks during those two months. That certainly made me feel better about filling the gas tank and no doubt had the same impact on most drivers. Many Americans are generally aware that the price at the pump for gasoline generally follows the price for crude oil up and down, and that local, state and federal gasoline taxes also impact what they pay at the pump. Fewer are aware of the fact that, due largely to federal regulatory policies, the costs of refining and transporting gasoline are lower in the winter months than in the summer months. I went into some detail to explain why and how these regulations impact your gas prices in a piece back in February, but the short answer is that the EPA, as a part of its program to reduce regional haze, requires refiners to manufacture specific blends of gasoline to be delivered to different parts of the country. There are far fewer such blends required during colder months than during the warmer months of the year. Obviously, it is going to cost any manufacturing company more to produce 100 different products each day than to produce, say, 10. Trying to transport specific volumes of each blend to thousands of specific locations at specific times also becomes increasingly complex as the number of blends increases. That increased complexity results in higher costs for refining and transportation, which ultimately end up being passed through to consumers at the pump. So in the winter, we had low crude prices combined with lower refining and transportation costs, resulting in a lower retail price for gasoline. Over the past three months, we have now experienced a 40% rise in the price for crude oil, and are now firmly in the season during which refiners must convert to producing the more numerous summer blends to comply with EPA regulations. All of which explains our currently "high" price for gasoline, which will probably go higher still as the weather warms. But how "high" is it really? That's all a matter of perspective, some of which you have hopefully gained from this piece.