On April 10, Venezuelan president Nicolas Maduro took to Twitter to do what he does best: praise the Bolivar Revolution's struggle and blame the Western world for all of his country's problems. Indeed, Maduro's entire Twitter feed is this type of commentary. But on that particular day, the president took to praising his country's productive capacity. It was all focused on Venezuela's agribusiness, with one tweet praising Venezuela's onion harvest. Yes, onions. Some 3,000 acres of it, planted by peace-loving small family farmers, not those big commercial operations selling to Cargill. That would be bad. They are doing it for the revolution. Of all things: onions; a non-commodity mostly used to add taste to rice and salads and maybe a steak, an animal protein that most Venezuelans can no longer afford. Irrelevant. For Maduro, the country's rural production is growing like gangbusters. While most developing countries are busy investing in things like roads, bridges, airports, capital goods, artificial intelligence, the blockchain, generic pharmaceuticals, e-commerce platforms, and telecommunications systems, Venezuela is stuck in its romantic pre-Colombia times, where living off the land is sacrosanct. Everything else is akin to "working for the man." Meanwhile, the one commodity that Venezuela depends on to keep its lights on, fund its public school system (perhaps to educate farmers on water and land management) and its state-owned hospitals, is failing. That's oil, of course. It's not the low oil price that's hurt Venezuela. It's terrible management, the near destruction of the private sector in the oil industry, and a kleptocracy at the top of the Venezuelan government's food chain that's hobbled its flagship enterprise, PdVSA. In March, Venezuela’s oil production fell to 870,000 barrels per day according to the International Energy Agency (IEA). The average daily production for the month decreased by 270,000 barrels, or 24% lower than the month before. Looked at over a 12 month period, PdVSA is producing around 41% less than a year ago, according to IEA. Rolling blackouts have played a big role in the shortfall. Over the last four weeks, the entire country has been plagued with electrical problems, problems Maduro blames on the U.S. and opposition parties in Caracas for sabotage. Also worth noting, U.S. sanctions on PdVSA crude oil means no more exports starting April 28. Many PdVSA clients have already been winding down purchases. Sanctions require that all existing sales of Venezuelan crude oil be kept in a locked bank account owned by the company in the U.S. and cannot be repatriated until sanctions are lifted. Venezuela told OPEC that national crude oil production in March would hit 960,000 barrels. OPEC estimates that the country extracted only 732,000 barrels a day in March and 1.02 million barrels in February. For comparison, Venezuela produced 2.4 million barrels per day in 2015, a year before its economic crisis began. OPEC has asked member states to reduce production, so this also has to be considered. But PdVSA oil output has been slipping for years due to lackluster investment. Even with lower output from OPEC members, $70 barrel of oil has barely kept Venezuela afloat. The country has been dependent on China and Russia loans for the past three years and is now open to humanitarian aid from Red Cross International. This is not a country firing on all four cylinders. Even if its onion farmers are planting like never before.