 Eight countries, including China and India, will be looking for alternative sources of crude supply starting today. Those eight countries - the other six are Greece, Italy, Japan, Taiwan, South Korea and Turkey - were granted temporary waivers last May when President Donald Trump withdrew the U.S. from the Obama-era executive agreement with Iran, and re-implemented U.S. sanctions on countries who continued to purchase exported Iranian crude. Early Monday morning, the Trump Administration formally announced that these waivers would not be renewed once they expire in early May. This move will take as much as 1 million additional barrels of oil off of the international market , and crude futures jumped to new 2019 highs after the Washington Post first reported the Administration's pending announcement on Sunday afternoon. The global supply/demand equation has already tightened significantly this year, after the OPEC-plus nations combined to reduce their own exports by over 1 million barrels of oil per day (bopd). That move, combined with slowing U.S. shale production growth and ongoing robust global demand growth, has reversed the downward trajectory of oil prices that took place durin the fourth quarter of 2018. “President Donald J. Trump has decided not to reissue Significant Reduction Exceptions (SREs) when they expire in early May,” the White House said in a statement. “This decision is intended to bring Iran’s oil exports to zero, denying the regime its principal source of revenue.” At the same time, the White House also said that the U.S. will work with Saudi Arabia and the UAE to ensure "that global oil markets remain adequately supplied. We have agreed to take timely action to assure that global demand is met as all Iranian oil is removed from the market." In response to the Trump Administration's announcement, Alireza Tangsiri, commander of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps Naval Forces, threatened that his country would shut down the strategic Strait of Hormuz: "According to international law, the Strait of Hormuz is a marine passageway and if we are barred from using it, we will shut it down. In case of any threat, we will have not even an iota of doubt to protect and defend the Iranian waters." Several times over the past two months, President Trump has used his Twitter account to express his concern about the role that "too high" crude prices were playing in causing higher U.S. gasoline prices at the pump as we move into spring and summer driving season. On February 25, a day when the Brent price sat at $64.91 (it is at $73.58 as I write this on April 22), the President tweeted "Oil prices getting too high. OPEC, please relax and take it easy. World cannot take a price hike - fragile!" Apparently, the President's concerns over oil prices have been subsumed by his concerns over the behavior of the Iranian governing regime. Regardless of what actions the Administration ultimately convinces Saudi Arabia and the UAE to take to maintain market balance, there is little doubt that today's announcement places more upward price momentum than the pre-existing factors that had already produced a 50% rise in crude prices since January 1. That's not really all that surprising, since the largely-gloomy economic outlook possessed by many economists at the first of the year has now been replaced by a growing, general optimism about the state of the global economy. Hedgeye Analyst Joe McGonigle summed up the situation thusly: "The decision will not only mean maximum pressure on Iran but also maximum pressure on oil markets, especially as we head into the high demand summer season. It will come as a surprise decision to oil markets that will likely result in at least a temporary price spike." Expect crude prices to rise, at least in the near-term, and if Iran were to carry out its threat related to the Strait of Hormuz, all bets are off. The situation could have a major impact on the U.S. upstream industry, but for now, everyone will be going into "wait and see" mode. 