Schlumberger CEO Paal Kibsgaard told analysts and investors last week that his company is seeing a slowing-down of activity in the U.S. shale plays over the first four months of 2019. “North America land activity is set for lower investments with a likely downward adjustment to the current production growth outlook,” Kibsgaard said, “the higher cost of capital, lower borrowing capacity and investors looking for increased returns suggest that future E&P investments will likely be at levels dictated by free cash flow. We, therefore, see land E&P investment in North America down 10% in 2019. ” Kibsgaard's comments follow five months of a steadily-declining U.S. rig count. The DrillingInfo Daily Rig Count sat at 1042 on April 20, 129 below its November 8, 2018 peak of 1171, a decline of 10.7%. Thus, Kibsgaard's comments should come as no surprise. But here's the other key part of what he had to say: In other words, the falling rig count and commensurate slowing of U.S. production growth is now one of several major factors creating momentum for strengthening crude prices, and, equally importantly, the refocusing by E&P companies from debt-driven financing of drilling to paying for it through free cash flow will serve to stabilize the domestic industry's financial position. That's all very positive news for the U.S. industry, and it really should come as no surprise. The recent U.S. shale boom has been mainly driven by the prolific Permian Basin, which is, in its current shale iteration, a fairly new play area, one that had already gone through a previous boom and bust cycle. But the Permian's initial boom cycle was cut short starting in late 2014 with the bust in crude prices that was driven by Saudi Arabia's decision to flood the market with oil. The boom started to pick up again in mid-2017, when prices began to firm up again in advance of the initial production limitation agreement between the OPEC countries and non-OPEC nations like Russia and Mexico. Those two and a half down years had created a lot of pent-up desire within all of the big E&P firms to get out and drill wells as rapidly as possible once prices started coming back. That fever to drill encouraged companies to take on new debt to fund new projects as they all tried to keep up with the competition. That fever gave way in mid-2018 to demands from investors and analysts that these companies refocus their strategies on increasing returns to investors. So, basically, the Permian has now gone through not one, but two "exploration" phases that are common to any new oil and gas boom region: The first from 2010 through 2014, and now a second from mid-2017 through 2018. This "exploration" phase involves competition to acquire leases and production, test-drilling to delineate the extent of the play area, and the drilling of initial leasehold obligations, all of which the Permian has now gone through. This phase pretty much always involves the taking on of debt as companies compete to gain a major foothold in a booming play area. The next phase of the boom is "exploitation." The extent of the resource is now pretty much known, companies have established their positions in the play area, they have drilled their initial leasehold obligations: Now, the initial frenzy of the boom turns into a more efficient and organized effort to exploit the known resources for maximum financial impact. So what we are seeing here - and what Mr. Kibsgaard described in his investor call - is nothing unusual. It is in fact the natural progression of any oil and gas boom. The only truly unusual thing here is that this is actually the second time we've seen this progression take place in the world's busiest play area in West Texas and Southeast New Mexico. So, this "slowdown" we are seeing is actually a sign of a healthy industry doing exactly what it is supposed to be doing. That's not the best news from Schlumberger's perspective, but it is good news indeed for the upstream segment of the domestic industry. 