Much has been made of U.S. President Donald Trump's crackdown on Nicolás Maduro's Venezuela, U.S. recognition of opposition leader Juan Guaidó as the country's 'Interim President', and sanctions on Caracas' rapidly crumbling oil industry. In the summer of 2018, with Venezuela's production heading for near certain terminal decline of sub 1 million barrels per day (bpd) of production, much was made by commentators about Colombia overtaking its neighbor in export volumes to the U.S.; a trend that has since continued. In fact, over one week in March (2019), the U.S. imported zero barrels from Venezuela, while Colombian exports have continued to rise, coming in at 11.8 million barrels in January, according U.S. Energy Information Administration data. Of course, both crudes are very different in terms of sulfur content and type, but volume matters. Only issue for all those Latin American exporters who have been dispatching crude oil to the U.S. in recent decades alongside Venezuela and Colombia – i.e. Mexico, Ecuador, Peru and Argentina – is the impending bad news over the short term. Washington's rising energy independence means less oil imports from the near neighborhood in the next three to five years. It is something that's not reflected in the data yet but is likely to invert the crude trade balance between the U.S. and Latin America. With Latin American oil exporters facing production and operational challenges, this shift could not have come at a worse time, according to Moody's. Many are facing a loss of productive capacity, reserves, efficiency and competitiveness. Conversely, Latin America is increasingly dependent on imports of refined oil products incrementally coming from the U.S. This shift in energy trade is credit positive for U.S. oil and gas producers, refiners, exporters and the American economy overall, but has "negative credit implications" for some Latin American exporters, according to the rating agency. "The U.S. has now become the world's largest oil producer, and the price impact of U.S. output entering the global energy market can lower revenue for Latin American producers," says Gersan Zurita, Senior Vice President at Moody's. "And as Latin America imports more petroleum products from outside the region, particularly from the U.S., their trade balances will weaken." Of course, as a large market for Latin American exports is becoming less assured, exporters in the region may have to seek alternative destinations for their crude. Moody's says these new markets will probably not be as "receptive or dependable" buyers as the U.S. has been, owing to the quality of the crude, the reliability of supply and other considerations. Furthermore, Latin American oil producers are staring at output challenges rooted in domestic developments. "Mexico is now a net importer of U.S. natural gas and petroleum products and remains a net exporter, decreasingly, of crude to the U.S. Declining U.S. oil imports from Latin America will challenge Colombia to rely less on oil royalties for fiscal revenue as its onshore reserves diminish. Brazil consumes most of its own crude output and is seeking to reduce exposure to fuel supply disruptions," Zurita adds. As for Venezuela, the less said the better. Its exports of heavy oil plummeted even before debt and equity-related sanctions were imposed on the government and PDVSA, and there are no signs of things getting better. 