Venezuela's president Nicolas Maduro sent his birthday wishes to Vladimir Lenin on Monday, the long deceased leader of Communist Russia. Lenin is one of a handful of Socialists United of Venezuela (PSUV) party idols, which include Cold War revolutionaries Fidel Castro of Cuba and Che Guevera of Argentina. PSUV's own revolutionary movement was based on anti-Spanish colonial leader Simon Bolivar. Like Maduro, all of the aforementioned men were loathed by a large part of the population, or caused a mass exodus of locals fleeing political repression and economic backwardness, to put it mildly. Maduro tweeted out his birthday wishes to the former Communist despot on Monday. Next year at this time, Lenin will celebrate his 150th birthday, a day that will probably be marked by op-eds in The Guardian and the Washington Post rethinking the Bolshevik revolution as -- perhaps -- a good thing, with the plebs rising up against one-percenters. Served them right. Lenin was trying to fight for the 99-percent. And in this regard, he was on the right side of politics. Preparations for his anniversary have already begun. Some 2 billion rubles ($31.3 million) have been allocated from the federal budget for the restoration of the Lenin memorial in Red Square, Moscow. The small city of Simbpirsk, where Lenin was born to a woman named Ilya Ulyanov, is also preparing to celebrate his anniversary. Many people believed Lenin was a gift from God who would change the world. In some respects, he did. He certainly left his permament mark on Russia and the world psyche, especially in relation to anti-capitalist economic theories then espoused by German economist Karl Marx. Lenin came up with is own version of a command-and-control society, where public money is doled out to the masses in terms of subsidies for everything from housing to food. For his part, Maduro is doing the same. Most people in Venezuela now survive on government hand outs. Those that do not, survive on dollars hidden in bank accounts or in safes at home. Others are getting dollar income from family members lucky enough to have two passports and living in Spain, or the U.S. At least three million Venezuelans have fled the country's economic depression, a tragedy that Maduro blames on economic sanctions that only started this year. Venezuela's economy has been contracting by double digits for at least three years, regardless of oil price. Like Lenin, Maduro has very little fans in Washington. The Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Vice President Mike Pence and President Trump have all called for his ouster.