The bad policy ideas just keep on coming from Scotland' ruling party. Saturday, the Scottish National Party, which controls Scotland's independent parliament, voted to ditch the British pound "as soon as practicable" when or if the country gains full independence. The vote appears to be motivated by little more than animosity toward many things English, a recurrent theme for the SNP. It could signal a turn towards Venezuelan-style economics. The problem with such a policy is that it may do far more to harm Scotland's economy than the joy it will give SNP party members in snubbing the English. Here's what you need to know: Scotland already has a near perfect currency regime. The Scottish Banks, The Royal Bank of Scotland, The Bank of Scotland and the Clydesdale Bank, issue their own branded bills (a.k.a. notes) which circulate through the Scottish economy, and also through the rest of the U.K., These bills change hands one-for-one with Bank of England bills. That one-for-one exchange rate helps Scotland's economy because it provides businesses in Scotland with stability. Scotland's sends 61% of its exports to the rest of the U.K., which is "nearly four times the amount of trade with the EU market," according to British government data. Introducing a new currency, that would presumably fluctuate in value versus the pound, would add extra costs of Scotland's businesses and so hurt the economy. Those additional expenses could include higher costs to borrow money. Britain currently benefits from a rare privilege because the pound is one of a few reserve currencies. The other major ones include the U.S. dollar, the euro, the Japanese yen. Because many countries choose to hold the pound, it means the British economy has easier and cheaper access to money. That access to cheaper borrowing could quickly disappear if the SNP gets its way and ditches the pound. The result would mean interest rates would be higher than otherwise. Oil-led currency volatility Scotland's vast reserves of oil and natural gas present another problem if Scotland does ditch the pound. The wild swings in energy prices, which are a regular feature of the oil and gas market, could also make the new Scottish currency volatile. Swings in the new currency, which would come in line with the gyrations in the oil market, could hurt any Scottish business that relies on exports. When oil prices rise then typically the value of the currency in an oil-rich country will increase too. That higher value makes it harder for businesses to export. This doesn't happen in Britain's economy because, as a whole, it is well diversified and the energy sector's contributions are relatively small. However, that's not the case with Scotland. It has a relatively small economy where the oil revenues would loom larger in Scotland than they do for the UK as a whole. The Venezuelan connection The move by SNP members to call for an independent currency seems reminiscent of the recent economic policies from Venezuela's socialist government. The South American country is the only state in the world currently experiencing hyperinflation. It's annualized inflation rate hit 72,944% on April 27, according to Steve Hanke, an expert in hyperinflation, and professor of applied economics at the Johns Hopkins University. That hyperinflation inflation has ruined the country's economy which has collapsed. Venezuela's government could solve the inflation problem overnight by adopting the U.S. dollar as its currency. But the hatred of all things American (and all things capitalist) by the country's leaders has led them to persistently reject that idea even though adopting the dollar could bring the economy back to life in a trice. That's where there are similarities with Scotland's ruling SNP. The ultra-left-leaning party repeatedly adopts policies that are all-but-guaranteed to hurt its economy. It also embracing some ideas, like ditching the pound, which are designed only to snub England. Scotland's people deserve better than bad policies which have the sole merit of sending a message of disdain to their leading trading partner.