When the Trump administration announced that it would remove waivers that had allowed eight countries to continuing buying oil from Iran, it reasoned that these nations would have easy access to other such providers. But its thinking is wrong, according to some experts.  The United States, with its 200-plus year history, has a hard time grasping relationships that go back centuries — ones that are not just bound by trade and economic ties but also by cultural and historical links. While this country’s economic sanctions and the oil embargo against Iran will have an impact, it is unlikely to alter such long-standing relationships — that these other nations can fly under the radar of U.S. detection and simply make in-kind exchanges or use currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  “Those countries that may be violating the trade sanctions will be very careful and they will resort to alternative currencies like the Chinese yuan, which fall outside of the U.S. Treasury Department,” says Nozar Hashemzadeh, professor of economics at Radford University in Virginia, in an interview with this writer. “It will increase the cost of doing business and it will harm American producers. The price of gas has gone up. Iran will continue to trade as she did during the last set of sanctions. What the sanctions will accomplish is to impose a heavy cost and more hardship on the working poor.”     What then is the motive for taking such an action? Hashemzadeh says that the economics don’t add up and thus, the only logical conclusion that one can make is that it is political. That is, it overturns the agreement reached between Iran and the Obama administration while it also serves to fire up some Trump supporters.  The eight countries that will have their waivers terminated are China, India, Greece, Italy, Japan, Taiwan, South Korea and Turkey — all nations that are dependent on Iranian crude and that may not be able to cut such ties easily. Last week, the Trump administration said the waivers granted almost a year ago would end in May.  To be clear, Iraq will be able to keep getting its Iranian-produced natural gas, at least until that waiver ends in June; it gets about 45% of electricity from Iranian-produced natural gas. Meantime, it frees up Iraqi businesses and workers who would become targets of U.S. sanctions and therefore get labeled as being in “material cooperation with terrorists” because of their jobs.  “The real issue for Iraq is its dependence on Iranian natural gas that includes some modest trade in oil,” George Lopez, University of Notre Dame Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, professor emeritus of Peace Studies told this reporter. “The exemption is critical for Baghdad given the continuing inability of the government to keep the electricity flowing. In places like Basra where there have been major anti-government demonstrations due to the incompetence of central government in providing basic public services sanctions on Iran would take a further toll.” Trade Ties Are Binding Undoubtedly, the ending of the waivers along with the prolonged trade sanctions against Iran will continue to hurt the Iranian economy. The International Monetary Fund said in its World Economic Outlook that it expects Iran’s economy to contract by 6% this year. That’s on top of the 3.9% last year.  The U.S. sanctions are having some impact, it says. But Iran's economic problems also have to do with slower oil growth in the region not to mention the strife in Iraq, Syria and Yemen.  The Trump administration thinks that the removal of the waivers will force the eight countries-at-hand to find new trading partners, which would include Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Altogether, 1 million barrels of oil would be taken off the market. Given the problems in oil-rich Venezuela and Libya, it is unlikely they could fill the void.  But the experts say that the rise in oil prices as a result of these actions by the U.S. administration could work in favor of Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Thus, they would have little incentive to increase production so as to keep prices down. Moreover, the Saudis produce “light” crude that results in a higher percentage of gasoline after it is refined. At the same time, if Iran feels threatened, it could close off the Strait of Hormuz from which a quarter of all oil must pass. The Iranian command has long-endured sanctions. It thinks now it can wait out the Trump administration. The United States has “a naive policy that more sanctions produce more results, especially on a country which has lived with brutal sanctions for decades,” says Notre Dame’s Lopez. “And these sanctions have a high risk of complicating ongoing disputes and markets. What are the incentives for China or Turkey ... to stop buying Iranian oil? China is already angered by its trade war with the U.S.” Notably, the United States and Iran had close relations after World War II. But that friendship ceased in 1979 with the overthrow of the Shah of Iran, who had enacted policies that hurt farmers and peasants. Today, according to Professor Hashemzadeh at Radford, the Iranian people are generally well-educated and secular — and have far more in common with the western world than they have with some of their outspoken leaders and neighbors.  “The Iranian regime is opportunistic and it could further exploit people’s deep resentment about the rising costs of goods brought on by trade restrictions,” Hashemzadeh concludes. “But 99% percent of Iranians want peace with the United States.” And negotiations would therefore produce greater dividends than sanctions.  