It is hard to recall a time when the United States has held more power over global oil markets. America has upended markets by becoming the world's top producer and a major exporter of both crude oil and refined products. But America’s geopolitical influence extends well beyond its role as a source of abundant, affordable and secure energy. The U.S. remains the largest consumer of oil, too, even though China surpasses it in imports and in the pace of its demand growth. President Donald Trump, meanwhile, has used his foreign policy to expanded America’s clout in oil markets. Trump has demonstrated he can move oil markets with a few characters on Twitter. Under the Trump administration, the U.S. has imposed harsh sanctions on the oil exports of two unruly OPEC members, Iran and Venezuela, moves that have dramatically altered the global supply picture. These measures – combined with an ongoing OPEC-led supply cut agreement – are the reason oil prices have surged to around $72 a barrel from below $50 in late December. But the president has not wielded sanctions haphazardly. Before applying “maximum pressure” on Iran and driving the country’s oil exports to zero, Trump won assurances from OPEC kingpin Saudi Arabia and some of its Gulf neighbors that they would compensate for lost Iranian barrels. The net effect has been harm to both Iran and Venezuela while making room for growing U.S. exports. Saudi compliance has kept oil prices from spiking, making it a winning strategy for Trump. Whether the Trump administration can maintain this delicate balance remains to be seen. Much hinges on the administration’s relationship not only with Saudi Arabia but also with Russia. Political and economic interests don’t always align, but it is indisputable that the real power in oil markets is now divided between Washington, Riyadh and Moscow. Vienna – OPEC headquarters – is merely an cosmopolitan backdrop. President Trump, Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and Russian President Vladimir Putin are now, to a large extent, calling the shots in global oil markets. America, Saudi Arabia and Russia produce about 32 million barrels a day, accounting for roughly one-third of the 100 million barrels produced each day globally. That so much power rests in the hands of three leaders with “strongman” reputations means things could change quickly. Saudi Arabia and Russia have worked to support oil prices since late 2016 through coordinated supply cuts, a policy that has benefited U.S. producers with new market share. Even before the United States tightened the screws of sanctions on Venezuela and Iran – both allies of Russia’s – Moscow suggested there was no need for extending the 1.2 million barrels-a-day supply cut deal with Saudi and the rest of OPEC beyond its June 30 expiration. Now that Washington has dropped the hammer on Venezuela and Iran – with no more sanctions waivers for buyers of Iranian oil as of May 2 – expect Moscow to push for the termination of OPEC cuts. Russian officials have not been shy about their frustration with sacrificing market share to U.S. producers. That view, however, does not fit with Saudi Arabia’s perspective. Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih has said his country’s assurances to the United States do not mean Saudi Arabia will break the OPEC deal and flood the market with oil. In fact, al-Falih has said there is an opportunity to extend the agreement into the second half of this year. The economic interest of Saudi Arabia is simple: The kingdom is believed to need an oil price of $75 a barrel to balance its budget. For the moment it appears Saudi Arabia can be all things to all people. While Trump would like to drive Iran’s exports to zero – down from its current rate of roughly 1 million barrels a day – it is more likely they reach a floor of 500,000 barrels a day since some of Iran’s biggest customers, including China and Turkey, have vowed to continue doing business with the rouge nation. Because Saudi Arabia has been pumping well below its OPEC quota of 10.3 million barrels a day, Riyadh can make up for the lost 500,000 barrels a day and still remain in compliance with the supply cut deal. That logic has so far kept oil prices in check. Moving forward, there are a number of potential issues that could wreck convince one of the brash leaders of oil’s New World Order to break ranks. Could Russia’s envy of U.S. production override its own economic need for higher oil prices? How will Moscow’s support for Caracas and Tehran factor into its oil policy decisions when the Trump looks intent on regime change in both countries? How can Saudi Arabia maintain cooperation in managing global oil markets with Russia when it continues to cozy up to Trump? And President Trump faces his own challenges, foremost his re-election in 2020. The Saudis lead and Putin don’t face the same risk and can afford to play the long game if necessary. Trump must also keep an increasingly anti-Saudi Congress – still fuming from the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi – in check by blunting the advance of anti-cartel “NOPEC” legislation and efforts to halt Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen. New potential U.S. sanctions on Russia’s energy sector introduced Congress add to the political risk for Trump. Meanwhile, all eyes will are fixed on the price of oil. Should prices rise substantially – or even marginally – you can bet President Trump will blame Saudi Arabia and OPEC. Because even though U.S. policies have contributed to falling supply, no president will accept the blame for rising energy prices ahead of Election Day.