The better-than-expected initial reading on 1st Quarter GDP was just the last item in a week full of positive news for stock investors. The focus was on earnings from some of the tech giants, as Facebook (FB), Microsoft (MSFT) and Amazon.com (AMZN) did not disappoint. They were up 7.4%, 5.3% and 4.8% for the week, respectively. It was another strong week for the Nasdaq 100 (NDX), which gained another 1.78%, followed by a 1.66% rise in the small-cap Russell 2000. Both the Dow Jones Industrials and Dow Jones Transportation Average closed the week lower, while the Dow Utilities had a nice gain. The S&P 500 was 1.2% higher, and made a new all-time high.    In my view, the market started the week in a lackluster fashion, as the Spyder Trust (SPY) and other key ETF's finished an indecisive week. That did not mean that the market outlook was negative: it just needed an impulsive move, like we got last Tuesday, to jump start the rally. The SPY closed above the prior week’s doji high of $291.42 and is now just 2.1% below the weekly starc+ band at $299.62. Moves outside of the starc bands are fairly rare, with the last time being during the late December market plunge, in which the starc- band was violated. The strongly rising 20-week EMA is well below the market at $278.18. The weekly S&P 500 A/D line made a new high again last week. It has been above its WMA since January 11, 2018 (line a), signaling a positive weekly trend. The last daily signal occurred on March 26, when the daily A/D lines signaled that the market’s brief pull back was over. The last monthly trend signal occurred in March 2016. It is also a strong sign that the Nasdaq 100 A/D line made a new high last week, which has again confirmed the price action. Of the six A/D lines I regularly monitor, only the weekly Russell 2000 A/D line failed to make a new high last week, as it is still well below the high made in August 2018. Two weeks ago, it was the health care sector that got slammed by some heavy selling. In the past week, some of the semiconductor stocks were hit hard. High-flier Xlinix, Inc. (XLNX) closed the week down 11.9%, even after it rebounded, to close 8% above the week’s low. For much of 2019, the semiconductors have been the most highly-touted part of the technology sector. The VanEck Vectors Semiconductor (SMH) closed down 1.6% last week, but is still up 32.7% YTD. The weekly starc+ band was exceeded last week, before it turned lower. The weekly chart and technical studies still look strong. The weekly relative performance (RS) turned down last week, but signaled that SMH was a market leader early in the year, and is still well above its WMA and support. The weekly On Balance Volume (OBV) also continues to look very positive. The daily chart shows that SMH moved above its daily starc+ band on Wednesday as it had a high of $120.71, before dropping to a low of $113.49 on Friday. The 20-day EMA was violated on Friday but SMH recovered and closed above it. There is converging support in the $110.60 area (lines a and b) and this level also corresponds to the March high. The 38.2% Fibonacci retracement support of the rally from the December low is at $105.57. The daily relative performance did make a new high last week, but has now dropped below its rising WMA. There is next important RS support at the uptrend (line c). The daily OBV has also dropped below its WMA but has good support now at the March highs. From the daily studies, it is possible that the worst of the selling is already over. Given the complacent attitude of some investors, it is prudent to look for sectors that are also vulnerable to a sharp decline. So far in April, the Health Care Sector (XLV) is down 3% while the SPY is up 3.9%. Last week XLV did rebound 3.6%, which is an encouraging, but are there other sectors should you be watching? As part of my weekend analysis, I review the closing action in each of the key sectors as well as the status of the weekly technical studies. The results are compiled in a table that is published every Monday in the Viper ETF Report. The table above has data as of the close on April 26, 2019. As you can see, only XLV closed the week below its QPivot level. Last week, there was only one change in the OBV analysis, as the weekly OBV for XLV moved above its WMA. There were several negative changes in the RS analysis as XLP, XLI, XLB, and IYT all dropped below their WMA's last week. These results are then followed by more in-depth daily analysis of each sector ETF. Last week the Energy Select (XLE) dropped 1.3% on Friday, as crude oil was hit with heavy selling. The Herrick Payoff Index for crude oil had formed a negative divergence at last Tuesday’s highs which warned of the decline (see Twitter). The weekly chart shows that after two weeks with narrow trading ranges, XLE had a wide range last week before closing lower. The fact that last week’s highs exceeded the high of the prior two weeks likely encouraged some buying before prices turned lower. The QPivot is at $63.23 with further support at $62.82. The weekly starc- band is at $61.72. The weekly RS has been acting poorly since late March as it bumped into its slightly declining WMA but was not able to move above before turning sharply lower last week. The weekly OBV has dropped well below its WMA as well as the lows going back to early in the year. The monthly technical studies for the Sector ETF's will be updated on Wednesday, May 1, and there are likely to be significant changes which I plan to cover in a mid-week report. The GDP report on Friday increased the urgency of some late buyers, and interest rates dropped, suggesting that the rebound in rates is over. This week will be dominated by a slew of earnings reports and the monthly jobs report on Friday. This could lead to a battle between stock and bond buyers over the course of the week. The ETF's that track the main market averages need a pullback to set up a good buying opportunity. There are a number of stocks that have moved sideways for much of April but finished strong last week. They present the best profit opportunities. I will be posting some stock chart examples this week on Twitter. Those who followed the four-week dollar-cost averaging plan I recommended before Christmas, are still 75% long at an average price of 2497 based on the S&P 500. On February 25, 25% of the position was sold when the S&P 500 moved above 2805. As a stop on the position, sell the remaining position if the S&P 500 has a weekly close below 2712, which is the new Quarterly Pivot (Qpivot). In my Viper ETF Report and the Viper Hot Stocks Report, I provide market analysis twice a week with specific buy and sell advice. New subscribers receive five trading lessons for just $34.95 each per month. 