With the tank on my sedan less than 1/4 full three Sundays ago, I stopped at the gas station. Roughly thirteen gallons later I was out $56. About what’s going to be said, anecdotes are too often substituted for statistics. I use the $56 anecdote this time mainly because everyone else in Washington, D.C. pays the same gasoline prices as I do. Furthermore, it’s not anecdote to note what is a fact of life for every dollar-earning American: at $62/barrel, the price of oil is over five times what it was back in the late 1990s. About the late ‘90s, it’s useful to point out that with oil prices so low at the time, the domestic U.S. energy industry was largely non-existent. All of this matters mainly because conservatives who should know better continue to promote the numerically false narrative that the “fracking revolution” has made oil and its byproducts inexpensive. Except that it hasn’t. Conservatives are spinning a wildly fictional tale, one that would make even Steven Spielberg blush.    About what’s being said, none of it should be construed as a polemic against oil. Not at all. Oil is wonderful. And while logic dictates that entrepreneurial minds will eventually replace it (lest readers forget, oil itself sat unused for thousands of years as a source of fuel) as a broadly used power source, for now it’s the best fuel we’ve got. My admiration for those who discovered it, and for those who continue to bring it to market, is endless. Where my admiration stops is when I, along with every other American, am forced to subsidize the domestic extraction of what is a globally sourced commodity. And subsidization of “American oil” is what we Americans do. That’s what’s so disappointing about conservative rapture related to “fracking.” Nothing against the decades-old innovation, but it’s only a prominent extraction technique insofar as oil’s dollar price is artificially high. Oil is priced in dollars, the dollar is shrunken quite a bit since 2001 against nearly every global currency and every commodity, so oil costs quite a bit more. To understand all this, readers need only imagine their height if suddenly the foot were shrunk to 1/5th of its previous length. Many of us would be close to 30 feet ball, despite not having grown an inch. The above does a lot to explain the modern oil price. And also the fracking revolution that so excites conservatives who have historically expressed an aversion to the subsidization of various industries. They claim against substantial evidence from the ‘80s and ‘90s that “frackers” have made oil cheap, but the paradoxical truth is that frackers profitably extract hard-to-find oil precisely because oil is nominally expensive. And oil is expensive, once again five times what it was in the late ‘90s, because the dollar’s value is a fraction of its late ‘90s self. Translated, every American subsidizes U.S.-based oil-patch economic activity through the earning of dollars that have fallen versus nearly every major foreign currency and every major commodity (including oil) since 1998. While oil can be extracted for as cheaply as $3-5/barrel in places like Saudi Arabia, it’s only profitable for it to be sourced in prominent U.S. fracking locales at $30-$60/barrel. Americans are supporting economic activity that wouldn’t exist if dollar policy in the 21st century hadn’t accented devaluation. Americans have had to suffer dollars exchangeable for less so that fracking could become a thing. If dollar policy in the 21st century resembled what prevailed in the last two decades of the 20th, oil would be cheap in dollars and Americans would for the most part have never heard of fracking. Which brings us to President Trump’s decision to sanction any country (including allies of the U.S.) that imports “Iranian oil.” That the Chinese are already balking at what’s absurd, that the Iranians are already secretly exporting nearly 2 million barrels each day according to the Financial Times, is the surest sign that Trump’s plan will fail. It takes but one buyer to foil a plan that fights the laws of economics. Indeed, there’s no accounting for the final destination of any good. So long as the Iranians are selling oil, the world’s consumers (including us Americans) will be buying it. In short, the proposed sanctions won’t keep Iran from selling. Logic dictates that the sanction will only change whom the Iranians first sell to. That’s why the Wall Street Journal editorial page’s response to what’s economically irrelevant was so puzzling. An unsigned editorial suggested the sanction decision could amount to “a potential shock for global oil markets.” Not really. My source? The Wall Street Journal editorial page of old. The late Robert Bartley (editorial page editor) and George Melloan (Deputy editorial page editor) used to regularly make the point that “oil shocks” in the price sense were generally dollar shocks; as in they were an effect of the shrinking measure in which oil is priced. In that case, the true “oil shock” that’s lasted throughout the 21st century has been a shrunken dollar that has rendered oil artificially expensive. More puzzling is what followed the above quote from the most important editorial page in the world. Trying to justify the Trump administration’s move against Iran, the unsigned editorial contended sans skepticism that “the [Trump] Administration says it is working with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates to fill any gap in supplies. American frackers will help, too, as they gear up in response to higher prices.” Except that conservatism has long rejected government planning of markets, let alone global markets….Furthermore, if Saudi and UAE could control global oil markets as is assumed, why was oil so cheap in the '80s and '90s, yet so expensive in the '70s and the '00s? Why is oil still pricey in dollars right now? And if "American frackers" could somehow move markets, why is oil so much more expensive now than it was when they were near non-existent? The Journal’s editorialists surely know the planning of a global price by the Trump administration will fail, particularly if the plan is to set "frackers" loose. Once again, fracking is only a thing insofar as oil is already expensive. Fracking can’t make oil cheap simply because abundant fracking is a consequence of oil not being cheap. As for Trump officials bending global markets, the view isn’t serious. What’s serious is that every American earns dollars. And Americans shouldn’t have to put up with nosebleed prices at the pump so that “American frackers” can thrive. As for Iran, short of what would be wrongheaded (a blockade of all its ports), its oil will flow. Probably for the better. Politicians need to learn that when they fight markets, markets always win. 