The oil market has always had a tendency to go barmy thanks to speculation and recent trading sessions amplify that description. As soon as the U.S. government dropped hints that it would not grant waivers to the importers of Iranian crude oil, exports of which it has unilaterally sanctioned, speculators went into overdrive. Their logic, given that Libya continues to burn with Field Marshall Khalifa Haftar's alarming assault on a UN-backed government in Tripoli, the ending of Iranian sanction waivers (scheduled for May 2) would be bullish. In a predictable move, hedge funds and other money managers increased their net long positions in the six primary petroleum futures and options contracts by another 61 million barrels in the week to April 16, according to Reuters data. These included Brent (+22 million barrels), NYMEX and ICE WTI (+21 million), U.S. gasoline (+10 million), U.S. heating oil (+3 million) and European gasoil (+5 million). The latest tally suggests fund managers hold a net bullish position in the six contracts equivalent to 865 million barrels. That is still below the recent high of 1.099 billion recorded in late September, and we all know what happened to the so-called rally back then that was supposed to catapult the oil price to $90-100, but came down with a thud to the $50s. The predictability of range-bound prices it seems doesn't agree with these folks, or shall we say doesn't make them money. So they do it again and again, something I have flagged on Forbes, repeatedly too. I very much doubt that the crude price, using Brent as a benchmark, had much capacity to extend gains beyond $75 per barrel, or for that matter even stay there when it got there overnight. That's because barrels lost from Venezuela, whose production is down to 740,000 barrels per day (bpd) have already been factored in, Libya's mess is known and Nigeria's no longer surprises. As for Iran, the latest U.S. sanctions initiated by Donald Trump are unlikely to be as effective as those put in place with the assistance and approval of the global community by his predecessor Barrack Obama. Ditching conservative estimates in favor of optimistic ones - let's say the Trump squeeze brings Iranian production down to 1 million bpd, with Beijing remaining as Tehran's last major buyer. Even in such a scenario, the market can cope reasonably well. As I have noted previously, between them - Saudi Arabia, Russia, Iraq and the United Arab Emirates - could bring back 1.3 million bpd to the market, let alone calls on other producers. Range-bound price sentiment is further reinforced by the fact that we are in a 'Goldilocks economy'; i.e. one that is not in a recession but not firing up either. Why? German slowdown, the mess that Brexit has become, concerns over China, Trump's threat of trade wars left, right and center, and what have you. Hence, global oil demand growth even by the most optimistic assumptions remains ~1.4 million bpd, and total demand just below 100 million bpd. Much of it can be comfortably met by what's in the global supply pool, even if all crudes are not created equal and different demand centers rely on differing degrees of light, heavy, sweet and sour compositions of a 120-plus varieties in the market. Yet according to Bloomberg, long positions in Brent currently outnumber short ones by a margin of 13:1. So when a rally is perceptively barmy, it needs something ridiculous to end it. Enter The Donald! Heading to address the annual meeting of the National Rifle Association event in Indianapolis, U.S., on Friday (April 26) the President, who's previously tweeted that Saudi Arabia and "others in OPEC" would mitigate the Iranian shortfall, quipped: "The gasoline prices are coming down. I called up OPEC. I said, 'You've got to bring them down. You've got to bring them down', and gasoline's coming down." No idea who he called or what he said. There is no singular influencer at OPEC with 14 producers in its ranks, and its current Secretary General Mohammed Barkindo is an appointed official not a unilateral decision-maker. But the end result of Trump's remarks is a puncturing of the so-called rally. At the time of writing (12:47 pm EDT), Brent Crude was down 3.67% or $2.73 to $71.62 per barrel, and WTI at $62.58, down $2.63 or 4.03%, although for the moment at least gasoline prices at the pump – something the President is visibly concerned about – haven't come down yet. Wonder who he is calling next, but I doubt it'll be the fund managers quite possibly busy decoupling from their long positions. In a range-bound climate, treat any market chatter of an oil price spike with caution and Trump's tweets as another market variable in this crazy crude world.