United States Steel Corp (NYSE: X) is set to release its Q1 2019 results on May 02, 2019, with a conference call with analysts the following day. Total revenues for US Steel have largely trended higher, increasing from $3.15 billion in Q1 2018 to $3.73 billion in Q3 2018, due to robust demand from end-market such as automotive, industrial equipment, construction, and pipe and tube. However, revenue decreased marginally to $3.69 billion in Q4 2018 due to much lower than expected growth in the European flat-rolled and tubular segment, though it was still higher on a y-o-y basis. The trend is expected to reverse in Q1 2019 with the company’s revenue expected to decline by about 6% (y-o-y) due to lower volume in European operations and loss of revenue due to the planned outage at the Great Lakes Works facility. Market expectations is for the company to report adjusted earnings of $0.22 per share in Q1 2019 compared to $0.32 per share in the year-ago period. Lower earnings would likely be driven by a higher effective tax rate, partially offset by gains under the $2 billion asset revitalization program. We have summarized the key expectations from the announcement in our interactive dashboard – How is US Steel expected to fare in Q1 2019 and what is the outlook for the full year? In addition, here is more Materials data. A] Revenue Trend US Flat Rolled Segment US Tubular Segment European Tubular and Flat-Rolled Segment B] Expense Trend Total expenses increased steadily till Q3 2018 on the back of higher revenues and increasing effective tax rate. Q4 2018 saw total expenses decline due to tax benefits received during the quarter, along with lower interest expense. Full Year Outlook Trefis has a price estimate of $25 per share for US Steel’s stock. We believe that increasing profitability and long-term benefits from the asset revitalization program would provide support to growth in the stock price. What’s behind Trefis? See How it’s Powering New Collaboration and What-Ifs For CFOs and Finance Teams | Product, R&D, and Marketing Teams More Trefis Data Like our charts? Explore example interactive dashboards and create your own. 