The airline business is a financially risky one, despite recent years of packed planes and low oil prices. Noted investor Warren Buffett once wrote,"If a capitalist had been present at Kitty Hawk back in the early 1900s he should've shot Orville Wright; he would have saved his progeny money." Few airlines can lose as much money and keep flying as Gulf luxury airline Etihad has. An alarming list of airline investments made by Etihad have contributed to the red ink, helping account for Etihad’s staggering $4.67 billion in losses since 2016.    Etihad, owned by the government of Abu Dhabi, is the second-largest airline in the United Arab Emirates, behind Emirates. Founded in 2003, it flies out of Abu Dhabi's International Airport to 75 destinations around the world. US airlines long accused Etihad (as well as Qatar Airlines and Emirates) of receiving unfair government subsidies, allowing them to charge artificially low prices and take market share from the US carriers. An agreement was reached where the governments of Qatar and the UAE agreed to more financial transparency, although Qatar’s ownership stake in Air Italy is threatening that agreement. So far, this hasn’t stopped American Airlines from partnering with Etihad, although rumors are that Etihad will bolt the deal for an alliance with United. Like Emirates, Etihad employs a number of massive long-range aircraft such as the Airbus A380. Etihad’s take on First Class travel in the A380, The Residence, is renowned for its opulence. It includes a three-room in-flight suite with a living room and bedroom with a shower, plus your own chef. Round-trip from London to Abu Dhabi? Just $12,000. Despite such offerings, Etihad has posted massive losses over the past few years, and some airline observers believe it has never been profitable. Etihad reported a loss of $1.28 billion on revenues of $5.86 billion in 2018. Some might call this an improvement over 2017, when Etihad lost $1.52 billion, and 2016, when it reported a $1.87 billion loss. Etihad’s losses over just three years come to $4.67 billion dollars. A possible bail-out merger with nearby rival Emirates has long been rumored, but has yet to occur. Many of Etihad’s problems relate back to its operations. One Mile At A Time notes that in 2018 Etihad carried 17.8 million passengers with a 76.4% load factor. This is below the world airline average of 81.9% in 2018, and far below the load factor of industry leader Ryan Air, which crammed its planes 96% full in 2018. More worrisome for Etihad stakeholders is that both the number of passengers and load factor actually dropped from 2017 to 2018, even as world air traffic was rising. In 2018 Etihad carried nearly a million less passengers than 2017 (17.8 million vs. 18.6 million) with a lower load factor, 76.4% in 2018 versus 78.5% in 2017. But even this doesn’t account for Etihad’s massive losses. In addition to its own operations, Etihad has invested in a number of other airlines over the years. Almost uniformly, those investments have been financially disastrous. Those came from its investments in airlines like Alitalia, Jet Airways and Air Berlin, all of which later filed for insolvency. In 2016 alone, Air Berlin and Alitalia were responsible for an $808 million write-down. The Air Berlin deal seemed like a good chance to acquire a stake in the lucrative German market. Etihad reportedly followed up a $255 million investment in Air Berline with another $255 million on Air Berlin’s loyalty program. Despite the $510 million lifeline, Air Berlin permanently ceased operations on October 27, 2017. However, that wasn’t the end of Etihad’s liability. The German bankruptcy administrator is suing Etihad for another two billion Euros, claiming that Etihad had promised financial support for 18 months, then abruptly withdrew it, triggering Air Berlin’s collapse. A settlement, meaning more money out of Etihad’s corporate purse, seems likely. Another notorious Etihad investment failure appears to be Alitalia, another venture into the European market. “Alitalia is famous for its losses, corruption and staying power,” noted Luxury Travel Diary. “The airline hasn’t made money in decades but refuses to die. Etihad was intrigued.” Etihad spent $500 million on a 49% stake in Alitalia, followed by $150 million to buy its loyalty program. Nonetheless, Alitalia declared bankruptcy in 2018, wiping out Etihad’s share—but continued to fly! Etihad has also invested in little-known Air Serbia, Air Seychelles, Aer Lingus and Virgin Australia. Virgin Australia (VBHLF:OTCPK), for example, is now trading at about 13 US cents per share. Etihad owns 515 million shares, about 19.9%. Finally, Etihad invested another $379 million in shares of India’s Jet Airways. Once again, it then invested in the loyalty program, to the tune of $150 million. Despite Jet Airway’s domestic network and good reputation, the airline always had trouble making money and recently declared bankruptcy. However, that may not be the end of the story for Etihad. The Jet Airways pilot's union has called for an investigation, writing Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking, "We urge you to intervene in the matter and order a probe to establish whether a larger conspiracy was at play, or of any collusion between State Bank of India and Etihad." Despite all the red ink, Etihad continues to operate. Recently, the airline has begun cost-cutting measures. Although you can still fly in Residence luxury, Etihad is now removing seat-back TVs to save weight. And if you're flying economy class, you'll pay for your food. 