Things are bad in socialist Venezuela, and they could be about to get even worse. Massive planned demonstrations this week combined with the possibility of even tighter U.S. sanctions on the country could push the beleaguered state even deeper into its economic malaise. The country is already suffering the rare and nasty phenomenon of hyperinflation which is quickly destroying the economy. The country's inflation measured an annualized 72,944% on April 27, according to estimates from Steve Hanke, professor of applied economics at Johns Hopkins University and an expert in hyperinflation. That level of inflation quickly makes money worthless and impoverishes the country's people. As a result, the country has seen its economy shrink for the past half-decade, sometimes with annual declines exceeding 16%.    The economic decline is best summed up by looking at the precipitous drop in oil production. While the country has the world's largest crude oil reserves, its daily output now stands at 960,000 barrels, down from close to 3 million a day in early 2014. Now the country's economy could sink even further. More problems coming Wednesday, which is celebrated in many countries as "workers day," should bring crowds to the streets in protest at the policies of the country's leader Nicolas Maduro, observers say. And that could raise tensions between the ruling socialists and the opposition, led by Juan Guaido, which wants Maduro out. "Opposition protests this week are key for sustained momentum [for regime change,]" states a recent research report from political consulting firm Eurasia Group. The report continues: Forward momentum is all well and good, could push too hard and forces loyal to Maduro could push back, resulting in violence. Maduro has shown no signs of wanting to quietly fade into the annals of history. More to the point, he shows every indication of wanting to fight. Again, Eurasia Group sums up the matter: "For now, however, there is little indication of talks between the two sides or any sort of near-term political breakthrough," the report states. If no or little progress is made then "the ongoing impasse will risk settling into a new, much less stable equilibrium." Lack of government stability will likely not be beneficial for Venezuela's economy. More sanctions? Meanwhile, sanctions imposed by the White House went fully into force on Sunday, and there is a possibility that the country will get hit with further penalties. "The White House will now probably look to see what types of loopholes exist and focus on a ratcheting up of sanctions in the coming weeks and months," Eurasia Group states.  The report also points to the possibility of military action against Venezuela. Despite what some might tell you, war is never good for an economy. The takeaway Investors should closely monitor the situation for two important reasons. Further economic deterioration could have the impact of lifting global oil prices. In addition, the current humanitarian crisis could get worse, which is something no one should want.   