With the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in power in India, the country has similar foreign policy interests to those of the United States under President Donald Trump. In November, the Trump administration granted India an exemption from U.S. sanctions on Iranian oil which has allowed India to import an average of 300,000 barrels per day from Iran for the last six months. India has complied with those numbers, and now that the U.S. has ended exemptions, India has positioned itself to operate without any Iranian oil. However, this could all be complicated depending on the results of the ongoing national elections throughout India. By the end of May, India might have a new prime minister and ruling party. It may be the Indian National Congress (INC or Congress Party), currently headed by Rahul Gandhi. While Modi and the BJP are close with the Trump administration and American allies and partners in the standoff with Iran (Modi is particularly close with Israel’s Benjamin Netanyahu and has increased cooperation with Saudi Arabia), the 85 year old INC has traditionally been more distant from the US and others countries that oppose the current Iran regime. The INC—which has been led over the years by Rahul Gandhi’s great grandfather (Jawaharlal Nehru), grandmother (Indira Gandhi), father (Rajiv Gandhi) and mother (Sonia Gandhi)—might be less agreeable to abiding by the US-imposed sanctions on Iran. For years, Iran has played a major role in fueling India’s economic expansion. There were close ties between Indian refineries and the Iranian oil and gas industry. Now, because of the Iran sanctions, India is compelled to purchase more from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf Arab countries. It may be compelled to rely on American imports too. Saudi Arabia is a new economic partner for India, but parts of Indian refineries are even being sold to Saudi Aramco, which should help cement a relationship. However, Saudi Arabia is also close with Pakistan, which has been an antagonist to India since partition of the subcontinent in 1947. It seems there is a good chance that Modi and the BJP will hold onto power. But if the Congress Party takes power in India, we do not know how India will react to the US sanctions on Iran. Would India continue to comply under a new government? Would a Congress Party government renew partnerships with Iran and the Iranian oil industry? Those are big questions for the oil markets and geopolitics watchers alike. 