 Kinder Morgan KMI +0%  This is bullish news no matter how you parse it. Immediate market reaction, however, has been net selling of Kinder and other midstream energy stocks. That’s as the S&P 500 and even oil prices have marched higher. Kinder shares are up roughly 35 percent from late December lows. So some of that can be chalked up to the old maxim "buy on rumor, sell on news." The dividend hike, for example, has been on the table since summer 2017 as the second of three boosts, to conclude with another 25 percent increase a year from now.    We think viewing this good news as old news, however, misses the point for Kinder, and the rest of the midstream business as well. Yes these results are very much in line with long-established guidance. But because that’s so, they’re also clear confirmation of Kinder’s long-term progress rebuilding shareholder wealth, lost to the late 2015 share price crash and 75.5 percent dividend cut. Certainly no one is more motivated in that effort than Chairman Richard Kinder, who announced a 175,000-share addition to his 11.09 percent stake on April 17. Insiders overall hold 13.84 percent of the stock and have bought 27 times so far in calendar 2019. At least equally important, first quarter results reveal no major hurdles to continuing growth and recovery. The key driver is the Natural Gas Pipelines unit, which grew EBDA by 12 percent—earnings before depreciation and amortization. Transportation volumes increased 14 percent from year earlier levels, the fifth consecutive quarter of 10 percent plus growth. Natural gas gathering volumes rose by 21 percent. Pipelines are now more than 60 percent of EBDA. That share will increase further this year, as the first of 10 liquefaction units enters service at the Elba Island LNG export facility in Georgia on May 1. The Gulf Coast Express Pipeline bringing Permian natural gas east is on target for full-service in October. And a giant cryogenic gas processing facility in the Williston Basin of North Dakota will enter service November 1. There’s still the question of what to do with the 70 percent ownership interest in Kinder Morgan Canada (KML, KMLGF), with management delaying results of the ongoing strategic review. Though now less than 10 percent of EBDA, the oil producing CO2 division still carries commodity price exposure. And in large part due to delays starting up Elba Island, Kinder now expects an end-year debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 4.6 times, versus its long-term target of 4.5 times. The big picture, however, is Kinder is still largely self-funding a very low-risk growth plan that’s focused on bringing currently trapped Texas natural gas to market. And that strategy is backed by a solid BBB credit rating, as well as leading market positions in natural gas, liquids terminals and ethanol infrastructure. Crude oil and condensate pipelines are also doing a robust business, with volumes up 8 percent from a year ago. Kinder shares are higher by 20 percent over the past 12 months but still cheap, priced to yield almost 6.5 percent after next year’s 25 percent dividend boost. We continue to rate the stock a buy below 22, for an eventual ride back to at least the low 30s. Because Kinder transports 40 percent of US natural gas and has a large presence in other core US midstream operations, its results are often a preview for the rest of the sector. One big piece that jumps out from the guidance call is the news on building a third Kinder gas pipeline out of the Permian Basin. Management has neither made a final investment decision nor added the project to backlog. But ongoing talks are clear confirmation that the natural gas and NGLs midstream business in Texas is thriving, and so very likely are other companies with a piece of it like Enterprise Products Partners (NYSE: EPD). Moving more gas out of Texas is less bullish for other producing regions, as all else equal it means lower selling prices. That’s one reason it’s hard to get too bullish on natural gas producers in general, especially since much of what comes from the Lone Star State is "associated" with surging oil production and therefore coming to market almost regardless of price. The likelihood of lower gas prices hasn’t yet affected developers’ desire to build major pipelines from Appalachia to key markets in the Northeast, Southeast and Middle Atlantic states. But should the Atlantic Coast Pipeline, Mountain Valley Pipeline and other projects remain blocked by courts and state governments, Dominion Energy (D) and Duke Energy (DUK) and other pipeline investors may focus elsewhere. Kinder also reported flat EBDA at its Products Pipeline unit, as lower re-contracted rates roughly offset higher volumes. The lower margins could be bad news for midstream companies with a high reliance on similar assets, such as Buckeye Partners (BPL). On the other hand, the Terminals unit saw a boost in liquids capacity utilization to 93.9 percent from 91.5 percent a year ago, a good sign for those in that business. Finally, Kinder’s CO2 business saw a 20 percent drop in EBDA, driven by a 19 percent decline in realized crude oil prices and 15 percent lower NGLs prices. That’s a potential concern for midstream companies to the extent they still have commodity price exposure. But overall, Kinder’s results paint a picture of rising volumes in US midstream. That’s bullish for the overall sector’s current revenue and future growth. Investors who are still light on this sector may never see a better time to buy in. 