So how long will the current bull market continue? Maybe longer than you think. When the first quarter GDP report came out recently, with its encouraging 3.2% growth rate, hearts fluttered and optimism filled the air. The state of the economy, and especially that of corporate earnings, drives the stock market. Could it be that all the gloomy talk about a recession coming at us in 2020 was off the mark? Quite possibly. By conventional measures, the current bull market began in March 2009, when the S&P 500 bottomed after the global financial crisis, and so is a little more than 10 years old. That makes it the longest in history. The average bull market lasts 4.5 years. Last fall, it sure seemed as if the market was headed for bear territory, when the S&P 500 came within a whisker of a 20% fall. And 20% is the standard marker for the start of a bear market. Here’s a radical thought: What if today’s bull market isn’t as long in the tooth as some believe? Another way of assessing markets is as super-cycles. In other words, long-term trends that last more than just a handful of years, where occasional recessions and market plunges are shrugged off because the public psyche has shifted, for good or for ill. A super-cycle ends when the game is changed, usually by a truly epic economic shift such as the one the Great Recession produced. Yes, bull markets don’t die of old age. Yet if one hasn’t been going for as long as some people think, that means it may have more time to run. Take the bullish super-cycle that ran from 1981, after Paul Volcker’s Federal Reserve defeated rampant inflation, until 2000, when the dot-com craze flamed out and threw the hope for a bright tech future into the Dumpster (for a while). Newly freed from inflation and fueled by a tech surge, the American economic zeitgeist changed afresh in the 80s and 90s. It didn't matter that the 1981-2000 bull run sure was punctuated by a drop of more than 20%, when the market crashed in October 1987. Then stocks went on to new heights amid an exciting torrent of personal computers and the Internet. Let's go back a bit in time for more context. Post World War II, a bullish super-cycle commenced with the end of the Korean War and gathered strength, buoyed by an enormous explosion of prosperity and innovation--TV, interstate highways, suburban expansion. It lasted until the late 1960s, when stagflation erupted, which produced a negative super-cycle through the 1970s and seemingly the end of the American Dream. After the 1980s-1990s positive super-cycle came the blah years that lasted most of this century, bookended by the tech bust and the financial crisis. By the reckoning of the wise souls at Delta Investment Management, the current bullish super-cycle began in 2013, after the market had recovered its lost ground from the autumn 2008-winter 2009 plunge. Six good years is a lot less than the official 10 years for the present bull market. Sure, there have been spells of worry during this current up-trend. In 2014 and 2015, for instance, gross domestic product went negative for one quarter, but didn’t produce another period in the red, thus avoiding the conventional definition of a recession: two consecutive periods of dropping GDP readings. In those days, two sequential quarters of negative earnings appeared, but earnings don’t count when it comes to declaring recessions. The culprit for the earnings slump was a slowing Chinese economy and dwindling oil prices. According to Delta, since 1950, for an S&P 500 drawdown of 10% to 20%, the average amount of days of decline are 96, about three months. The average number of days to recovery—that is, returning to the previous peak—is 72. The 19.9% S&P 500 slide late last year fit that pattern, for the decline, starting from Sept. 20 and ending Christmas Eve day, Dec. 24. Only this Monday, as in yesterday, did the index exceed that level, which is a month longer than the average. As Delta puts the matter in its recent report: “The pattern of bull/bear super-cycles has been in place for the past 120 years. Nothing about the past 19 years suggests that the market is different this time.” Which may mean the market’s good times have a ways to roll.