A robust oil market is bringing home the dollars for some key energy-rich nations in the Middle East. And in some ways, OPEC (the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries) is to blame because of its decision to restrict oil output of its member countries. "[A] fresh slowdown has got underway at the start of 2019," according to a recent report from London-based consulting firm Capital Economics. "This has primarily reflected the impact of the OPEC-agreed oil output cuts." OPEC routinely sets production quotas for its members to help keep the price of oil at a level that is profitable for the member countries but at the same time not so high that it hurts the buyers.    While the recent production cutbacks have helped lift crude prices, the net effects haven't been universally good. Prices for Brent crude oil futures contracts have rallied to $71.50 a barrel recently, up more than 40% from $50.47 on December 24, according to data from Bloomberg. Here's what you need to know. The first part of the equation is that high oil prices don't always translate into higher revenue for the countries that sell the stuff. How much revenue comes in is a combination of price per barrel and the number of barrels sold. In the recent case, the number of barrels sold is down for OPEC members due to the production quota cuts. That's resulted in reduced profits across the region and weaker economies. Many OPEC countries rely heavily on oil to sustain their economies and governments. The deleterious effect is widespread. Consider the following from the Capital Economics report: Tighter credit Credit standards have tightened in the MENA (the Middle East and North Africa) region, according to a recent report from Washington DC-based think tank The Institute of International Finance. Credit standards help determine how difficult it is to get a loan, and when those standards tighten borrowing becomes harder. When the availability of credit declines in an economy then growth typically slows. That's because activity in the business sector is closely tied to the availability of loans. Or put another way, economic growth is likely to deteriorate even further for at least some countries in the Middle East.   