America’s determination to enforce sanctions and drive Iran’s oil exports to zero have put China in a box. When it comes to the policy options to deal with the situation that is. This is evidenced by the way Beijing responded following Washington’s announcement that it won’t extend the exceptions granted to a group of six countries from the Iran Oil export sanctions (China was one of them). In a Globaltimes editorial posted on Tuesday, Beijing avoided using harsh criticism against Washington. Instead, it confined itself to trying to “clarify” China’s interests in the Middle East and the ways it can cut the potential losses from the sanctions. “We think China should clarify its interests and principles surrounding the purchase of the oil from the Middle East nation and strive to minimize the loss of China's national interests,” says the editorial Beijing also stated its intention to work with Europeans and Russians to maintain good relations with Iran. “China needs to jointly safeguard Iran nuclear agreement with Britain, France, Germany and Russia, and also needs to maintain friendly and cooperative relations with Iran,” added the editorial. Apparently, China isn’t ready to confront the US, not yet. It doesn’t have the right geopolitical and military might to do so. And the time isn’t right either, with trade negotiations underway. Still, Athens-based oil analyst Theophanis Matsopoulos sees China suffering big losses from a cut-off from the Iranian oil market. “The USA is declaring trading war against major economic entities like China and EU,” says Matsopoulos. “The recent waiver regarding imports of Iranian oil will boost the crude price even higher since approximately 2 million barrels will be taken off the market on daily basis. This will accelerate inflation of the Chinese economy and will push it towards an even sharper slowdown.” Meanwhile, Matsopoulos doesn’t see Europeans siding with China on the issue. “Countries that are directly related to the Chinese investment plan like the One Belt One Road (OBOR) will support China,” he says. “The EU does not have a common foreign policy in important matters and especially with complicated domestic issues taking place like the rise of euroscepticism, the Brexit and the Italian hardline approach. There is no room for working against the powerful and solid American foreign policy.” However Jeff Yastine, Senior Equities Analyst at Banyan Hill Publishing, doesn’t think that Washington is serious with its threat to fully enforce Iran oil sanctions. “The last time the administration raised this issue, it turned out to be a "paper tiger" threat,” he notes. “The White House never followed through and ultimately said ‘Forget about it’ instead of delivering on threatened punishments with Iran's biggest oil partners. I expect this to be much of the same. It's designed for domestic political purposes moreso than geopolitical ones.“ Like pleasing American frackers—the big beneficiaries of higher oil prices. There’s a good reason why Washington cannot follow through on tougher oil sanctions with Iran’s oil partners, according to Yastine — “it ultimately hurts (the) domestic agenda, not the least of which is higher oil prices -- which will suck the wind right out of the current rally in the stock market if we see oil go past last year's highs of $75 a barrel.”