Friday saw one of the largest oil price drops in recent years, with WTI falling $2.41/barrel. Many attributed the move to President Trump’s tweet that he had spoken to Saudi Arabia and others about raising production to lower prices, and his comment that he had “called up OPEC” and told them to lower oil prices. Unsurprisingly, there is little evidence that he undertook any action other than his comments, something the public is used to by now, so some are puzzled by the sharp price move. When people ask how the oil price is set, I often suggest not studying microeconomics but watching the great movie, “Trading Places,” which includes the memorable line spoken by Eddie Murphy’s character, being told how futures markets work, “I get it. You guys are bookies.” The investment banker nudges his brother and says, “I told you he’d understand.” Needless to say, this is not the lesson to be learned. Instead, the view of the trading floor with brokers yelling buy and sell and reacting as a herd to news and rumors captures the way prices are set in the very short-term, seconds, minutes and hours. No one on the trading floor is thinking about the marginal cost of production, the long-term cohesion of OPEC, or pressure from new technologies like electric vehicles. The immediate response to any piece of news or rumor is based primarily on the expectations of how other traders will respond. For example, if the estimate for GDP in the previous quarter is announced and is higher than expected, traders know that the standard interpretation of this is bullish, and that even those who don’t think it means higher demand (it is a lagging indicator after all) recognize that others will treat it as such and push prices higher. But such moves are often temporary, as markets (read “traders”) digest the news more fully and read varying interpretations of the data. Thus, the next day’s trading might see a reversal or pullback from the original move—especially if there is no other news to drive the market. This explains why news or events that might seem irrelevant to the world oil market can move prices. Violence in the West Bank is highly unlikely to change the number of barrels of oil on the market, but traders are prone to react to Middle East violence wherever it occurs. Similarly, threats from Iran to close the Straits of Hormuz (more accurately, threats from an Iranian official) might be shrugged off as empty verbiage, just as President Trump’s tweets often are, but that makes little difference—in the very short term. Friday’s move did appear to be about much more than just the relationship between the U.S. president and OPEC or OPEC+, because when the market has moved steadily in one direction for a period of days, there are those who are waiting to take profits from their positions. One of the most important factors in momentum trading is spotting the turning point, even if the momentum appears to be based on fundamentals not psychology. News about Iranian sanctions, fighting in Libya, Russian oil quality problems and more had been pushing up prices all week, but by Friday, there was not only some pushback—downgrading of estimated supply losses, for example—but the bulls had made good money and were looking to take profits before others pushed the price down. Thus, President Trump’s comments were simply a trigger for bulls to sell off. And with falling prices, there was apparently a lot of “long-covering,” that is, traders with long positions that needed to be closed out, by selling into the market, which made the downward price move that much sharper. The closed weekend market also encourages Friday traders to get out of their positions to avoid losses should news over the weekend be unfavorable. All in all, the Friday selloff suggests that the market was somewhat overbought, but while the media (and bloggers) must of necessity explain what happened in near-real time, it seems likely that traders will digest last week’s developments over the weekend and come to the market on Monday with a new perspective. Some rebound might be expected in prices Monday, but could easily be overwhelmed by other news, data, or rumors. 