What if retrofitted air-conditioners could convert carbon dioxide (CO2) into renewable hydrocarbon fuel? And what if this model, adopted collectively and globally, could help put energy in the hands of the people? That’s what Roland Dittmeyer, from the Karlesruhe Institute of Technology in Germany, and co-authors have proposed in a comprehensive perspective published by the journal Nature Communications. Titled “Crowd oil not crude oil”, the paper addresses people’s frustration with inaction on climate change, suggesting the model could empower ‘prosumers’ to create sharable oil wells as part of a new energy economy.    Property owners could have the option of feeding excess fuel into a renewable oil grid. “The envisioned model of ‘crowd oil’ from solar refineries, akin to ‘crowd electricity’ from solar panels, enables people to take control and collectively manage global warming and climate change,” write the authors. To synthesize the renewable hydrocarbon onsite, modified air-conditioning and ventilation systems powered by renewable energy would capture CO2 and water (H2O) from the air using existing technology. Electrophoto- or thermocatalytic processes would generate synthetic gas which is converted to hydrocarbon fuel using chemical processes. The fuel could replace fossil fuels or be stored for power generation when renewable energy supplies are low. If used, the emitted CO2 is again captured, creating a net zero carbon cycle. If stored, it could result in negative CO2 emissions. In preliminary analyses, the researchers found that applying this innovation in Germany’s Frankfurt Fair Tower could remove up to 1.5 tons of CO2 per hour and convert it into 2,000 to 4,000 tons of fuel per year. Every hour, 25,000 German grocery stores could capture around 1,000 tons of CO2. Applying this to homes, a building with five to six flats could use 0.5kg of the gas per hour. “The environmental, economic and social consequences of such a distributed oil well technology,” the authors suggest, “should contribute to the practical realization of chemical fuels from carbon dioxide as feedstock in a circular sustainable economy of the future.” 