Somali-American and Minnesota congresswoman Ilhan Omar might have a legitimate reason to disdain U.S. foreign interventionism. She's a Muslim; she knows U.S. foreign policy in Muslim nations like Iraq, Libya and Syria have been a disaster. Hundreds of thousands of people have been killed. Lives have been upended. The consensus today is that U.S. policy and its support for very shady characters in these countries have made matters worse. But Venezuela is not the Middle East. U.S. policies are not the reason why Venezuela is a mess, as Omar said this week on the Democracy Now! radio program. The U.S. is not making Venezuela any worse than it is or will become under existing leadership. Her view mimics many left-of-center voices critical of the regime change policies that began under Bush and Cheney. The ruling Socialists United of Venezuela is, point blank, the only reason why Venezuela is a mess. And president Nicolas Maduro is its leader. Maduro governs a failed state. Fifty other countries, including Colombia, Brazil, the U.K. and Spain, all agree. Brazil and Colombia are currently catering to around one million Venezuelans who have fled the country. Some have preferred taking their children out of school and living in United Nations tents in Colombia instead of Maduro's Venezuela. Maduro's incompetence, of which the Socialists United rallies around, is killing Venezuela. Not Trump. Not Elliot Abrams. Not Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. This is not a pre-emptive strike, searching for terrorists under beds and weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. The economy began its deep decline years ago, in the Obama years. It has been in an economic depression for three years. Obama first sanctioned members of the Maduro Administration in 2015. Trump later sanctioned Maduro's Vice President Tareck El Aissami for drug trafficking in February 2017. Later that year, U.S. companies were banned from providing financial assistance (as in loans) to one company only, oil firm PdVSA. Talk of the U.S. banning food and medicine shipments to Venezuela is not entirely true. So long as those shipments are not going to sanctioned individuals, it's not breaking sanctions law. In 2018, the U.S. sanctioned trading in PdVSA bonds in the secondary market. All of those bonds but one were already in default long before those sanctions were announced. Then in 2019, the U.S. asked PdVSA crude oil importers like Chevron to wind down its purchases, demanding PdVSA keep its cash receipts from U.S. sales in its U.S. bank account and not repatriate it to Venezuela. And last week, total bans on PdVSA crude oil shipments to the U.S. began. Venezuela's economy was in dire straits way before this. Worth pondering, if the U.S. sanctions, of which the most serious were only enacted this year, were driving Venezuela to the poor house, why are even worse economic sanctions against Russia not hurting that country just as bad? "Without hard currency exports to the U.S., the Venezuelan regime is under extreme duress," says Agathe Demarais, global forecasting director for The Economist Intelligence Unit. She says it is hard to quantify the impact of sanctions on an economy unless there is a total embargo. "The objective of U.S. sanctions is to collapse support for Maduro from within the regime," she says, adding that it comes with amnesty offers to military officials in exchange for free and fair elections. National Assembly President Juan Guaido has been orchestrating protests all year. Guiado declared himself interim president in January until new elections could be held. He has gone so far as using those powers to appoint new diplomats at its embassies. Tens of thousands more people come to Guaido rallies than come to Maduro's counter-rallies. Yet, despite Guaido's ability to woo some defectors from the National Guard, he has yet to make any big splash moves. Top officials and military commanders remain supportive of Maduro. No A-listers have said they have had enough of this chaos. However, Guaido's strategy is more like death by a thousand cuts. Time is on his side and not on Maduro's. As the economy deteriorates, more National Guardsmen are expected to defect. This opens a new element in the crisis: an opening among the military and PSUV officials to negotiate Maduro's resignation. Anti-Maduro bureaucrats and politicians in the U.S., like Senator Marco Rubio, could literally stop saying a word about Venezuela and it would not change Maduro's fortunes one bit. "Omar has no idea what she’s talking about,” Rubio told Trish Regan on Fox's Primetime last night. "She's just making it up. She doesn't even follow this issue....It's actually embarrassing." Alejandro Arreaza, an emerging markets research analyst for Barclays in New York, said the protests this week chip away at Maduro's strength in Caracas. "The situation remains very fluid. But the government position seems to have been weakened more," he says. Venezuela's international isolation, coupled with its self-inflicted economic collapse, have not been enough to give anyone at PSUV a true "come to Jesus" moment. They have dug in. Their political ideology, after all, demands it. They have a reputation to uphold: they are revolutionaries fighting for the downtrodden and the natives, robbed by colonials and later robbed again by American corporations. That's what Maduro tells his soldiers they are up against. It's a historic battle, an academic "decolonial" battle that the left is fighting even here in the U.S., and if it must be won, then why not win it? Most of the rank and file in Venezuela's army must believe it. Higher ranks might care less about Maduro's post-colonial theory, but they have bigger things going on -- running drugs and extortion rings, for instance. Their lives depend on PSUV staying in power. Since the founding of PSUV by revolutionary Hugo Chavez, the party reluctantly paid Wall Street bondholders, while preaching its brand of anti-capitalist, Cuban-style Marxism. They ruined the country long ago. They were more interested in the past, and their role in erasing it, than they were interested in investing in Venezuela's future. After years of lackluster investment in infrastructure, their entire power grid is buckling. Real GDP declined 15% in 2018, back when the only sanction was on PdVSA bonds, hardly an economic mover. Demarais of The Economist Intelligence Unit says she expects further contractions this year and next. A forecast recovery in 2021 to 2023 rests on the assumption that Maduro (and PSUV) are gone. Then the International Monetary Fund, Chavez's old enemy, will come in to fund this mess. PSUV's worst nightmare would have come true...all thanks to them. Venezuela's GDP has fallen by around 50% since 2013. Demarais thinks oil production falls to 900,000 barrels a day over the coming quarters. Less oil out of Venezuela, an OPEC country, will have an impact on oil prices. Then again, oil at $100 a barrel won't do much to save Venezuela so long as PSUV is running it.