The day started off in Caracas with thousands marching in the streets, spurred on yet again by opposition leader Juan Guaido, to convince more members of the National Guard to ditch president Nicolas Maduro. As the day wears on, it looks more like another failed attempt to kick Maduro to the curb. The protest, which mostly took place in the capital city, also included opposition figure Leopoldo Lopez, set free (temporarily?) by his captors guarding him under house arrest. Yet, even with the Alpha and the Omega of Venezuelan opposition leaders all but begging the military to overtly join forces, Maduro persists. No military bases were captured. No TV and radio stations, run as Socialists United (PSUV) propaganda outlets, were taken over by Guiado. For some time now, Wall Street bondlords have given up on the Venezuela story. Why bother? There is absolutely no money to be made unless your broker is a foreigner and they're trading the one PdVSA bond that hasn't defaulted yet. Americans are banned from trading Venezuela bonds. "We got out of Venezuela last year in anticipation of sanctions," says Anupam Damani, global fixed income fund manager for Nuveen. "The opposition has stalled out again, even with the protests we're hearing about today. We are all waiting for the catalyst that leads to change in Venezuela. Maduro has outlasted all expectations. He's entrenched in Caracas." After today's overt call for a military uprising, Guaido has pulled out all the stops against Maduro. He risks arrest or worse. Tuesday's protest was centered in Caracas and was designed to show Guaido surrounded by defected National Guardsmen who now constitute a small, anti-Maduro rebel force. Venezuela is facing its worse ever economic and political crisis. Over 3 three million have left the country. Some are now living in United Nations tents in border towns in Colombia. Sanctions on Venezuela oil began in the first quarter, with crude oil sales to the U.S. completely banned this week. Maduro has blamed his country's economic calamity on Washington, though Venezuela has been in disarray for at least three years and sanctions only started this year. Lopez's release from house arrest today could paint Guiado as even more of a reckless politician, on the same side of a prisoner many in PSUV see as an enemy of the state. It will be interesting to see if Lopez returns to house arrest after today, and who will guard him. "What seems clearer is that the uprising has broken the fragile political stalemate of recent weeks, and will force the Maduro regime to make a crucial choice: whether to arrest Guaido or not," thinks Giancarlo Morelli, an economist for The Economist Intelligence Unit. "Failing to arrest Guaido would be perceived as an important sign of weakness from Maduro. But arresting him risks a strong counter-reaction from the U.S.," he says. U.S. military action is still considered unlikely. But that would change in an instant if something were to happen to Guaido. Defections of National Guard soldiers are expected to increase as Venezuela's economy deteriorates further. This would give Guaido fire power against the Coletivos -- armed militias that support Maduro and do not abide by the same rules as the real army. Worse yet, it also threatens a civil war. Maduro could be forced to step down by military commanders who do not like watching members of the same unit shoot at one another. Or Maduro could call for early elections; elections PSUV would surely lose. How long this takes remains a guess. Earlier this year, Barclays Capital economist Alejandro Arreaza predicted Maduro would be gone by March or April.