With the unexpected resignation of Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev in March, all eyes are on the largest energy producer in Central Asia. Kazakhstan’s power transition to president Kassym-Jomart Tokayev – which thus far has been smooth and transparent – is a good sign for crude markets that have recently been roiled by geopolitical crises across Libya, Venezuela, and now Iran. There has been some pushback, however. Hundreds in Kazakhstan have demanded a boycott in the upcoming elections, citing a cover-up for an “orchestrated handover of power.” The rallies were reportedly organized by supporters of Mukhtar Ablyazov, a former banker and government minister who lives in France. Ablyazov is wanted in Kazakhstan and Russia on charges ranging from fraud to murder. He has been found by a British court to have defrauded his bank to the tune of 4.9 billion dollars. Indeed Nazarbayev’s peaceful resignation is a far cry from the opaque transitions seen in neighboring Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan after their leaders died in office. There were even reports of violence in the Turkmenistan case. While the pace of transition may be slow, all signs indicate that the change will transpire within the confines of the constitution.    Tokayev, the Speaker of the Senate and respected diplomat, has the reigns as president until the country’s June 9 snap presidential elections. Nazarbayev earlier stated that Tokayev is the "worthiest candidate for the highest position in the country" and described Tokayev as a "close ally and outstanding politician" underscoring his vast public service experience. With Tokayev the clear front runner, the state of Kazakhstan after Nazarbayev’s resignation might just be “steady as she goes” – much to the satisfaction of foreign investors. Some concerns remain regarding the observation of democratic norms and full transparency in the election process, as well as the continuation of Nazarbayev’s vision of economic reforms. The potential for Chinese and or Russian interference can also not be ignored. To allay some of these fears, Tokayev visited with Russian president Vladimir Putin on March 20, and Nazarbayev met with Putin and Chinese Premier Xi Jinping at the Belft and Road Initiative (BRI) mega-conference in April. Overall, however, the situation bodes well for oil majors like Exxon, Chevron, and Royal Dutch shell which all maintain multi-billion-dollar interests in Kazakhstan’s prolific oil and gas fields. Chevron is Kazakhstan’s largest private oil producer, holding important stakes in two of the nation’s biggest oil-producing fields – Tengiz and Karachaganak. Shell is also active in Karachaganak and has been working with the domestic KazMunayGas company to develop the Kashagan field, one of the largest deposits in the world. Exxon and Chevron have been involved in Kazakhstan’s oil and gas development for over 25 years. These companies have benefitted for decades under the rule of Nursultan Nazarbayev, and a continuation of policies under Tokayev will certainly lend confidence to future operations. Nazarbayev undeniably transformed the former Soviet Republic into the most economically developed country in Central Asia by leveraging the country’s vast natural resources as an engine for growth. After an initial hit in 2014 following the double-whammy of falling oil prices and currency devaluation tied to Russian sanctions, Kazakhstan’s GDP growth has risen from a low of 1% in that year to 4.1% in 2018. Experts attribute this growth to greater energy sector output, of which oil and gas are its proverbial bread and butter. Kazakhstan’s political re-alignment will not have a significant, if any, effect on this basic trajectory, meaning the new leadership will continue to add value for investors by increasing its oil and gas yield. According to the Oil & Gas Journal, Kazakhstan had proven crude oil reserves of 30 billion barrels as of January 2018 – the 2nd–largest endowment in Eurasia after Russia, and the 12–largest in the world, just behind the United States. In terms of crude oil production, Kazakhstan reached an all-time high record of 1.9 million barrels per day in December of last year, with output continuing to rise in 2019. Incredibly, Kazakhstan has increased its crude oil production by 40% since December 2009. But the new leadership under sitting president and presidential candidate Kassym-Jomart Tokayev acknowledges that fossil fuel-driven ‘petro-prosperity’ is a fleeting economic model. Basket-case nations such as Venezuela show us how a heavy reliance on oil/gas exports can make a country susceptible to the middle income trap. Natural resources have served Kazakhstan well – and will continue to for at least the next several decades – but the global transition away from fossil fuels will necessitate a pivot away from the historic economic model. And so, Kazakhstan is beginning to innovate. The country is actively emulating the economic diversification models of the Gulf States, such as the UAE and Oman -- adding value through developing transport, tourism, agriculture, processing industries, and high-tech and finance. Kazakhstan launched the Astana International Finance Centre (AIFC) in July of 2018, creating a state-of-the-art financial bridge between European and Asian markets. Kazakhstan’s construction sector, focused on transportation and infrastructure, is set to see positive growth in the next five years – helped along by Chinese investments and an overall improvement of the Kazakh economy. The Kazakh government has plans to invest $4 billion into updating transportation services through new railroads, highways, and airports. Additionally, Kazakhstan saw an increase in its agricultural exports by 12.9% in January-February of this year when compared to the same time last year – the majority of which were processed products. The country is also undergoing an ambitious privatization program now entering its second stage. The first phase, which took place from 2014- 2015, saw $135 million privatized. Over $300 million was privatized in 2018. This year 23 entities are expected to be privatized including Kazakhstan’s seven largest companies, among them the Samruk Kazyna Sovereign Wealth Fund, Kazakhtelecom and Air Astana, as well as a portion of Kazatomprom. Kazakhstan is also a major BRI partner. In 2015 Nur-Sultan (formerly Astana) aligned its national development strategy with that of China in order to boost Kazakh trade, industrial capacity, energy, and technology – a major comfort to global investors who have poured $161.7 billion into Kazakhstan as of January 1, 2018. Nur-Sultan’s flagship “Bright Road” project – a massive $40 billion infrastructure plan – has been the driving force of much of this investment. The two have also signed $26 billion in deals since 2015 relating to the BRI. While the next leader of Kazakhstan will not be known until June 9, one thing is certain - the pressure is on for the next president to sustain the growth and economic reform the country has been accustomed to under Nazarbayev’s reign. With assistance from James Grant and David Pasmanik        