Love it or hate it, the most important technological revolution in energy since the invention of nuclear power is the fracking revolution, which has made the US the world’s largest oil and natural gas producer. As recently as 2007, many if not most experts thought that the US and the world were running out of oil and gas, but directional drilling, underground mapping, and fracking opened up shale, a rock formation one mile underground where methane and petroleum are trapped.  When the fracking revolution took off, I was one of the few environmentalists who defended it. Mine was a highly unpopular position among environmentalists. But the evidence was overwhelming that natural gas is, environmentally, superior to coal in every way.    Opponents said fracking fluids were poisoning fresh water, and that methane gas was leaking into faucets. Others claimed that cheaper natural gas made renewables like solar and wind less competitive. It was much ado about little. Solar and wind have benefitted not suffered from cheap natural gas. Modern-day fracking resulted in less methane leaking than older kinds of gas drilling. And while fracking fluid has been improperly disposed of, it did not contaminate aquifers. During those years, I interviewed and got to know most of the key figures involved in creating the fracking revolution, as part of a research project I led to understand the origins of the natural gas revolution. All of the fathers of fracking expressed gratitude for the government subsidies they received. The Department of Energy “started it, and other people took the ball and ran with it,” Dan Steward, the right-hand man to fracking’s father, George Mitchell, told me in 2011. “You cannot diminish DOE's involvement." The subsidies the federal government gave to the natural gas industry included a $10 billion subsidy for unconventional natural gas exploration, including in shale. Yes, there were other important factors including the right of American landowners to sell subsurface rights to frackers, and the existence of a highly capitalized and competent oil and gas industry. But federal government involvement spanned four decades and included entrepreneurial research, hands-on R&D, and generous tax credits, which were a necessary condition for the fracking revolution, a research finding that both the New York Times and Associated Press confirmed. “They helped us to evaluate how much gas was there and evaluate its critical properties," Stewart told me. "They helped us with our first horizontal well. They helped us with pressure build-ups. And we worked with them on crack mapping." One might expect such a legacy would make the whole oil and gas industry, not just fracking’s fathers, sympathetic when nuclear plants needed subsidies. And indeed the oil and gas industry stayed on the sidelines when lawmakers in Illinois, New York, Connecticut, and New Jersey in 2016 and 2017 extended modest subsidies to nuclear plants to prevent rises in electricity prices and air pollution, as occurred in California and Vermont.  But then, some natural gas producers convinced themselves that the subsidies nuclear plants had received were a travesty of justice. They demanded that American Petroleum Institute (API) try to kill nuclear subsidies in Pennsylvania and Ohio. API started calling them a “bail-out” and proclaiming the virtues of “the free market.”  What the gas industry really wants is to make billions by killing nuclear plants, replacing their output, and finding ways to increase electricity prices later. The industry’s hypocrisy is as glaring as its greed. The subsidies nuclear plants are receiving at the state level are little different from the subsidies gas producers received for drilling shale, as both rewarded a valuable form of cleaner energy production. Then, at the very moment that the oil and gas industry was crying to legislators in Pennsylvania and Ohio about supposedly market-distorting nuclear subsidies, it was making off like bandits under federal tax reform in Washington, D.C. Just 17 American oil and natural gas firms received an astonishing $25 billion in “direct, one-time benefits from the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” according to an investigation by Antonia Juhasz of Pacific Standard.  ExxonMobil got $5.9 billion, Phillips 66 got $2.7 billion in tax breaks, Chevron got $2 billion, but fracking companies benefited the most, with EOG Resources receiving $2.2 billion, Hess $1.37 billion, Apache $1.34 billion, Anadarko $1.2 billion, and Andeavor $1 billion. In contrast, the state-level subsidies that nuclear plants receive are in the hundreds of millions, not billions. Surely the oil and gas industry’s tax subsidies elicited howls of protest from the legion of “free market think tanks” in Washington, D.C.?  On the contrary. Their ire was instead directed at the far more modest state-level subsidies for nuclear plants. “Instead of spurring competition between emissions-reducing power sources,” claimed R Street's Travis Kavulla in Politico, any policy that helps nuclear plants “locks in one energy supplier for the foreseeable future.” One would be forgiven for thinking, after reading Kavulla, that without subsidies for nuclear plants, the provision of electricity would otherwise be happening in a free market. But is that really the case? Consider the fact that if your local grocery store doesn’t have apples, you can go to the grocery store next door to get some. But if your state or regional electricity grid doesn’t have a nuclear plant, you simply can't have nuclear power.  That's because when a nuclear plant is closed, it’s closed forever. There’s nothing that allows electric utilities to re-start nuclear plants after natural gas prices start to rise again. And it takes somewhere between 10 and 20 years to get a new nuclear plant approved and built.  Unlike apples, there’s no alternative to nuclear. Solar panels and wind turbines can’t reliably provide electricity for even 40 percent of the year much less nuclear’s 90 percent, and coal and natural gas can’t do so without polluting. It may be tempting to believe that Ohio and Pennsylvania, rich in natural gas, will be different from California and Vermont, but the latter two states also had cheap natural gas when their nuclear plants were closed, and prices still rose.  The bottom line is that while natural gas prices are low today, they are unlikely to remain low forever. If policymakers allow nuclear plants to close, and natural gas prices rise, as they always have in the past, a major source of reliable and relatively cheap electricity won't be available to compete for market share and constrain prices. Which is just the way the American Petroleum Institute would like it. 