Russia has 21 companies on this year's Forbes Global 2000 list of the world's top corporations. Surprise! Seven of them are oil and gas companies. The country that late-Senator John McCain famously (or infamously, if you are Russian) called nothing but one giant gas station is -- sort of -- one giant gas station. Neither the snows of Siberia nor the sanctions of Washington can stop these guys. They are like the Tom Brady of the global oil and gas industry. You either wish you could partner with them, and be on their team like the Germans building Nord Stream II with Gazprom. Or you hate their guts. All seven of the Russian oil and gas firms on the Global 2000 have moved up the ranks this year. Gazprom is Russia's largest. It's ranked as the 40th largest corporation in the world, up from 43 the previous year. Rosneft, the Russian oil and gas company run top-down by Igor Sechin, a man referred to behind the scenes as Darth Vader in Moscow, is now the world's 52nd largest corporation, up from 73 in 2017. Both Gazprom and Rosneft are state-owned enterprises. Most oil and gas firms in Russia are. But two of the most well known private players, Lukoil (which has gasoline filling stations from Atlantic City up to Saratoga Springs) and Novatek (owned by billionaire Leonid Mikhelson) are no slouches. Both are an integral part of the domestic and global oil and gas industry. Novatek is becoming a huge player in Siberian liquefied natural gas. It has the Yamal LNG project under construction and a sister project, Arctic LNG, still on paper. "These are professionally managed companies. Their interests lie with shareholder interests," says Maximillian Hess, who leads political risk consultancy AKE Group in London. "It's not just one overall story that has led to their growth despite sanctions, despite negative sentiment on Russia. Higher oil prices have helped them grow, but that's not the only reason." Take Rosneft for example. They've grown through acquisitions, some of it dodgy (if you are Mikhail Khodorkovsky, ex-CEO of Yukos Oil). Rosneft’s January to March net income increased 62% year-on-year in the first three months of 2019 to 131 billion roubles ($2 billion). Its oil output was up by almost 4% to 4.74 million barrels per day, according to company earnings released this week. "This is a company that has more of a political strategy in many cases than a pure business motive for its spending," says Hess. Rosneft is a big funder of the Venezuelan government. They lent its oil firm PdVSA $1.5 billion back in December 2015. In exchange, Venezuela pledged its 49% stake in Citgo. The big red triangle flashing outside of Fenway Park during Red Sox games in the summer is nearly fully beholden to the Russian government. The rest is a tangled web of Western bondholders and energy companies. Rosneft may or may not keep its stake in Citgo just to have a say in the future of Venezuela. Some of Sechin's investments over the last couple of years have been good (Bashneft), some not so good (Venezuela). Their investment in Egypt has paid off the most. Rosneft is now slated to become an LNG exporter, rivaling Gazprom, thanks to Egypt's deepwater Zohr field in the Med. It produced 12.2 billion cubic meters of natural gas last year. Rosneft acquired a 30% stake in Zohr from Eni of Italy back in 2015. It's been quite the find for Rosneft. "Russia has done very well in spite of sanctions," says Chris Gaffney, president of world markets at TIAA Bank. "Imagine if there were no sanctions against their banks and energy companies? I think business sentiment would go through the roof." On Tuesday, Senators led by Ted Cruz of Texas introduced yet another anti-Russia sanctions bill. Target: Gazprom's Nord Stream II. Like some of Rosneft's political motivated investments, Nord Stream II is mainly seen as a slap in the face against Ukraine. It's basically a sister pipeline running adjacent to Nord Stream I. A second pipeline means Russia is less likely to use Gazprom pipelines cutting through Ukraine to sell gas to Europe. The latest sanctions threat goes after the mostly EU-company owned industrial marine vessels involved in laying the pipelines underwater. If those companies withdraw their fleet out of fear of Treasury Department fines, Gazprom would have a hard time replacing them. But judging by this year's Global 2000 list, sanctions have not stopped Russia's big oil and gas companies from getting even bigger. In Moscow, Lord Vader probably doesn't want Washington to keep trying.