On May 6, former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich delivered a lengthy report to the United States Congress. The report, “5G: America at a Tipping Point,” presents a frightening scenario: “Imagine a world within a decade in which Chinese totalitarian rules are applied to the Internet, your cell phone is monitored by Beijing, your search engine is censored by Chinese authorities, and your facial identity is tracked around the world and archived in China. This world is incredibly likely if we continue to be confused and disorganized in building a 5G Internet system.” 5G is a is a wireless networking architecture that aims to increase data communication speeds up to 20 times faster than its predecessor, 4G. It also allows connections for more than 200 additional devices per square mile than 4G. This would lead to increased connectivity affecting most aspects of our life. It also concomitantly increases the risks of potential harm due to software and hardware vulnerabilities, as well as risks of abuse by those who have the best access. In this case, the fear is that the Chinese government will become the biggest abuser.    Gingrich’s report is full of technical details and provides an outstanding overview of the technology and what is at stake. It concludes that “the selection and allocation of specific bands of spectrum is the key to American victory in the race to 5G wireless capability. The United States is losing the 5G competition to China because we are allocating the wrong spectrum and using the wrong model.” What follows is my effort to call for a change of mind on how we approach the spectrum “market.” Few topics are more important in political economy than the allocation and ownership of resources. Some of the leading moralists of the West, such as Thomas Aquinas's followers and commentators, who helped build the foundations of the free society[1], paid great attention to private property rights. These were the natural law scholars that the late Joseph Schumpeter regarded as founders of economic analysis. On the moral and religious side, they followed Genesis 1:28 to explain that man’s dominion extends to the center of the earth and up into the heavens and “the birds in the skies.” The ancient maxim of property law—“Whoever owns the soil, it is theirs to up to heaven and down to hell”—was well founded. It must be said, however, that it is honored more in preaching than in practice. The United States is one of the few countries with laws applying private property rights to minerals and other subsurface rights. By not following principles related to the protection of private property and relying on socialism or state-private arrangements, many countries have squandered their wealth below the soil or left it unused. In many cases, such as in Latin America, many live in dire poverty while sitting on mountains of gold. Even in the United Kingdom, those mineral rights are in principle the property of the crown—a strangely atavistic nod to the much older doctrine that the entire country was the property of the monarch. Immense wealth is being wasted today in the unused spectrum, the radio waves required by common standards of communication. The reason? The predominant role of governments in the decision process for its allocation, coupled with an outdated regulatory framework. Radio waves are a casualty of the state’s acquisitiveness vis-à-vis once-private property rights. As a couple of articles from Forbes.com about 5G have highlighted, and as Tom Hazlett has shown, the United States led the way toward more statism with regard to the spectrum. In his book The Political Spectrum, Hazlett describes how then-Commerce Secretary Herbert Hoover’s Radio Act of 1927 effectively nationalized the air waves, bringing an end to what had been a well-functioning, common law-based system of use-based property rights. A return to the pre-Radio Act days may or may not be practical, but there are strong arguments for reclaiming something of the notion that property owners can and should benefit from economic activity that takes place on their land, even if it transpires in the “ether.” If you wanted to run a railroad through someone’s land or build a school on privately owned property, you would have to compensate the landowner. But if you transmit and receive data via radio spectrum on my land, I am entitled to nothing. You might well retort that it has cost me nothing for you to broadcast or receive on or in my property, but consider this: The spectrum is useless without infrastructure. It can be likened to crude oil in the ground—it’s there, it has potential value. But that value can only be realized through the construction of wells (base stations in wireless), pipelines or other transport networks (backhaul), and even refineries (core networks) that in turn connect the product to the rest of the value chain—cars, power plants, and so on. This also applies to spectrum (think the World Wide Web, etc.). Despite all this potential, Wayne Crews of the Competitive Enterprise Institute wrote in a previous piece in Forbes.com, “I haven’t been approached once about leasing a spot for installing anybody’s 5G equipment; but I and probably many other property owners are willing.” Crews owns a rural property with poor Internet service. So do I. I have never been asked, either. The spectrum situation is this: if someone wants to put an antenna and base station on your land, they have to pay you rent. But to use the spectrum that’s in your space, they pay the government. Whether you think this is just or not, it creates a disincentive to install wireless-networking equipment on private property because the property owner doesn’t get to participate in the economics of spectrum use. In the United States, private mineral rights have contributed to the unprecedented and world-leading innovations in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing that have, in turn, revitalized and revolutionized the U.S. petroleum industry, once left for dead. If any place in the world could restore spectrum property rights, it would be the United States. In order for true competition and better incentives to help liberate the immense potential in a way that will benefit all – and from the bottom up, not from the top down – we need a major policy change to liberate this growing sector of the economy. In making a case for open access wireless market, the most elaborate and convincing paper I have read is that by Peter Cramton and Lynda Doyle, An Open Access Wireless Market Supporting Competition, Public Safety, and Universal Service. They conclude: “The introduction of an open access wireless market is inevitable. Its benefits are simply too great to be ignored. The only question is which countries will take the regulatory steps to embrace open access. The economic gains to such first-movers will be staggering, as mobile communications transition to a competitive and highly innovative structure.” It is unlikely that the U.S. government will undo Hoover’s 1927 spectrum-grab on a whim. But the liberation of the market could be started today by the current spectrum licensees. One company, Rivada Networks, a U.S.-based telecommunications company that also maintains a presence in Ireland, has already proposed sharing the economics of spectrum use with property owners unilaterally, in order to encourage those property owners to install equipment and improve networks on their land and in their buildings. I met Rivada founder Declan Ganley not through my interest in communication technology but through my efforts to promote policies that lead to inclusive economic development—policies consistent with private property rights for all within a framework of subsidiarity and federalism. Imagine that you, as a property owner, got a share in what happens in the portion of the spectrum from your property. If you are a shop owner or rent in a mall, the mall owner would get a share, as would the municipality, and then upward, in ascending order, according to the subsidiarity principle. We can romanticize about a utopia of markets without governments, but that is not what we have today. Major decisions today are made not by regular customers but by powerful government players and companies tied to government in one way or another. It is true that we, customers around the world, choose to buy an iPhone or a Huawei phone, and usually a carrier as well. But the biggest money—which is not necessarily associated with the best service—is made by large companies that are associates or quasi-associates of the state. This is not a pure “free-market transaction.” As long as governments play a role in creating and enforcing a legal framework, they will remain relevant actors. Releasing blocks of spectrum, and deciding how powerful devices can be in those frequencies so as not to damage third parties, is one part of this role. Preventing governments controlled by communist parties from entering the game with special privileges is another. In a piece in The Wall Street Journal, Ganley wrote: “Spectrum that remains exclusively in the government’s hands is almost always underused, if not wasted. It makes sense for Washington to make a large block of spectrum available as quickly as possible to promote higher speeds and more coverage. Doing so could give a boost to a sector of the tech economy that has atrophied as subsidized Chinese equipment makers have rapidly gained market share in wireless networking.” His solution is to “fund it privately, require open access, and let the market do the rest.” Many analysts, such as columnist and legal expert Gordon Chang and the Heritage Foundation’s Jay Carafano, have taken a very aggressive stance against the strategies and actions of the Chinese government and the companies it controls or directs. They use terms as theft and economic warfare to describe what is going on. I do not like wars. I think that aggressions against privacy and private property internally and across borders need to be countered. But I also believe that by enhancing the good, such as creating an open-access wireless market in a country (an idea that is floating around), the expected benefits might encourage the rest of the world to follow suit. I wish that—as Cramton and Doyle foresee—open markets in this sector were inevitable, but that defies history. If Newt Gingrich is right, what happens with the spectrum might help determine whether the world moves towards more freedom or more totalitarianism. The future of communications will depend on how we fight the battle for ideas, leadership, and proper incentives such as private property and competition. The race is on and the stakes are high. It’s time for a courageous change of mind, for regulatory policies more in tune with today’s technologies, and for decisions which protect consumers from the power of state and quasi-state actors. [1] For an extensive analysis of these moralists, sometimes referred to as the Late Scholastics, see my book Faith and Liberty. 