The July Crude oil contract made its high of $66.44 on April 23, before it started just over a two-week slide in prices. Last Monday, the July crude contract had a low of $60.10. This amounted to a decline of 9.5%, which has really surprised those crude oil traders who follow fundamental data. The weekly chart shows that one week before the price high crude oil formed a doji (One Chart Formation You Shouldn’t Ignore). This was a sign that the market was indecisive, and it peaked the next week. The 20 week EMA at $60.66 was violated last week, but crude closed above it at $61.80. Once below last week’s low of $60.10, the next support is in the $58-$59 area. The Herrick Payoff Index (HPI) measures money flow through the price volume and open interest data. It peaked with prices, and has since pulled back to just below its WMA. Last October the HPI dropped below its WMA three weeks after the high. The weekly On Balance Volume (OBV) looks stronger, as it is still well above its rising WMA. The daily chart shows that the starc- band was tested last Monday. Crude seems to have some short covering on Monday as stocks were plunging. Crude had a high of $63.48 before closing lower at $61.21. Crude acted better on Tuesday up 0.64 or just over 1%. The daily HPI formed a lower high on April 23, creating a negative or bearish divergence (line b) with prices. Two days later the daily HPI dropped below its WMA and it is still negative. The daily OBV is below its WMA and shows no signs yet of bottoming. This is not an encouraging sign for crude oil prices over the near term. The Comex continuous gold contract peaked the week of February 22 at $1349.80. A week ago, gold had a low of $1267.40 but moved higher last week. From the February high to the recent low, gold declined $82.40 per ounce or 6.1%. If the recent lows do not hold then the next good support is in the $1250 area. The weekly downtrend (line a) is now in the $1300-area and a close above it should signal a move to the $1325 area. The weekly HPI peaked with prices in February, and two weeks later dropped below its WMA, It is still holding above the zero line, so the money flow is therefore still positive. The weekly OBV is also below its WMA, but not by much, and will move well above it with a strong close this week. The daily chart of gold also shows a well-established downtrend (line c) that was overcome in decisive fashion on Monday when gold closed just barely above $1300. The daily starc+ band is at $1311.70 with additional resistance at $1314 and then $1325. Gold is well above the 20-day EMA which has turned up and is now at $1287.20. The daily HPI formed a negative divergence at the February high (line d) before it dropped sharply with prices. The downtrend in the HPI (line e) was broken in late April. This was after the HPI had formed higher lows (line f) and therefore a bullish divergences. The HPI is now rising strongly as it is well above the zero line.. In other words, the money flow was improving even though gold prices were declining. The HPI is now in a clear short term uptrend and well above the zero line. The OBV has moved back above its WMA and needs to overcome the March high to complete its bottom formation. For traders, the evidence suggests that gold prices have bottomed. It appears that the down-gap open on May 2 was a good entry point for traders in the Spyder Gold Trust (GLD). A stronger rally would confirm the improving technical studies. There are no signs of a completed bottom in crude oil but one more decline might be enough. I would not advise being an aggressive seller of crude oil at these levels. For updates on the markets follow me on Twitter. For twice a week analysis of the commodity ETFs you might consider the Viper ETF Report which is only $34.95 per month. 