  The direction of the markets is difficult to predict, but some important signals — when reviewed and analyzed together — can provide some clues and influence how investors position their portfolios. Whether seeking to take advantage of anticipated opportunities or assuming a defensive stance against potential downturns, investors may consider economic data as integral to informing their strategy. Key data points to potential slowing. Overall, the first quarter of 2019 started the year off calmly, but some economic data continued trending lower. Real GDP growth for the U.S. has ticked down since its 4.2% showing in the second quarter 2018. In the fourth quarter, it dropped to 2.2%, thanks in part to the government shutdown, and economists are generally expecting about 1.5% growth for the first quarter 2019. For context, the average real GDP annual growth rate has been under 2% for the past 10 years. Another weak spot for the economy early this year was housing, which has yet to reach pre-recession levels in metrics like housing starts. Housing can create a multiplier effect on the economy, as it spurs construction as well as consumer spending.    Future capital expenditures on the part of businesses are also hazy. Corporate tax cuts in 2018 were a boon, as companies spent on property, equipment and research last year. However, spending has dropped recently given some uncertainty in the environment. For instance, slowing global growth could be a challenge for the S&P 500, whose companies rely on overseas markets for nearly 44% of their revenues. Additionally, trade wars and Fed action could further complicate matters. Is a bumpy road ahead for equities? As some economic indicators trend lower, it appears that the pace of the U.S. economy could slow, though it is much too soon to talk about a recession. Stocks rallied strongly since their late December correction, and all major equity categories (including all S&P 500 sectors) were in the black in the first quarter. Valuations are reasonable, and it appears the Fed may be done raising interest rates — and thus the cost of borrowing — for the near term. While market volatility was muted in the first quarter, it is expected to pick up as the year progresses. One factor to watch for is corporate earnings growth. Corporate tax cuts had a hand in an earnings growth spike in 2018, but similar results are unlikely this year. As companies compete for employees from a limited supply, they may begin offering higher wages that could squeeze profit margins. The bond market’s signals are mixed. The fixed income side is sending mixed signals about the economy: The yield curve is flattening, and credit spreads are narrowing. Demand for bonds is increasing. But with short- and long-duration bonds yielding similar amounts, the yield curve has flattened — which means short-term bonds could be more attractive for their reduced duration risk. Intermediate yields are expected to face downward pressure due to slowing growth, muted inflation and a patient Fed. For those participating in the high-yield market, credit spreads — the extra compensation a bondholder receives over Treasuries for taking a downgrade and default risk — have tightened since widening in December. The tighter the spread, the less investors are compensated for assuming greater risk. The spread is close to 15-year averages, according to a recent report by my company, but some question if risks are being fully accounted for considering that corporate debt is at over $9 trillion. Market volatility could cause credit spreads to widen. Certain risks appear to have eased up. As investors digest the latest economic data and performance indicators, it’s also important to consider potential risks. In the near term, markets could be impacted by U.S. trade negotiations, political risks in Europe, slowing global growth and a change in monetary policy, to name a few. Although such risks have decreased in intensity since the start of the year, they are persistent. As investors review their portfolios, they may want to devote attention to their equity exposure, particularly in international markets coming under pressure, as well as to fixed income allocations. With volatility expected to pick up in the equity markets, certain bond classes and durations may be able to help temper any drastic swings. As always, consult with an advisor who will take personal financial goals and risk tolerance into consideration, helping you power through changing economic environments. The information provided here is not investment, tax or financial advice. You should consult with a licensed professional for advice concerning your specific situation. 