On Sunday morning, Iranian and Lebanese new channels reported that several tankers (between four and ten) exploded in the Persian Gulf. These reports were picked up by the dubious Russian media outlet, Sputnik. However, satellite imagery of the area, which is regularly examined by TankerTrackers.com, revealed no fires and no evidence of explosions. Oil prices rose sharply Monday morning before they dropped in reaction to new Chinese tarrifs. The incident stoked fears that the safe passage of oil might be impeded in the Strait of Hormuz in the Persian Gulf. About 1/5 of all the oil consumed in the world passes through the Strait of Hormuz. Even though the apparent acts of "sabotage" took place at 6 am on Sunday, it is still unclear what happened. Russian media outlet RT and Sky News Arabia both obtained footage of Norwegian ships that sustained damage to their hulls, but no one is claiming responsibility for the action, and U.S. officials have not yet given their take. The incident purportedly took place at Fujairah, which houses an important oil storage facility in the eastern part of the U.A.E. near the Gulf of Oman. The U.A.E. Foreign Ministry quickly denied reports of an explosion or raging fires, but did state that four vessels had been damaged in "acts of sabotage" in that area. Later in the day, the Saudi oil minister issued a statement, confirming that two oil tankers owned by Saudi Arabia were damaged on Sunday morning in an apparent attack. The act, which Saudi Arabia is called "sabotage," occurred in the Gulf of Oman, near the United Arab Emirates, as the tankers prepared to enter the Persian Gulf waters. According to the Saudis, the two tankers sustained significant damage, though they were not carrying oil at the time so no spill ensued. One tanker was preparing to load oil bound for the United States. Tensions in the busy shipping lane are high after Iran threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz if its oil shipments are impeded. However, the U.S. is only imposing sanctions on Iranian oil—not an embargo—so there should be no reason to impede Iranian the movement of Iranian oil under the sanctions regime. The United States did hasten the deployment of military assets to the region last week. News of this supposed "sabotage" shook oil markets until it became clear that oil was moving as usual. Finally, oil prices on Monday dropped on larger concerns that the U.S.-China trade spat would lead to a global recession. But we should expect more flare-ups that grab attention and (temporarily) spike prices as Iran gets desperate and the Persian Gulf countries worry about Iranian reactions.