When we think of Saudi Arabia, we automatically think of oil. As the linchpin of OPEC, a "cartel" that accounts for 40% of the world's supply, Saudi Arabia continues to have far more influence on global petroleum prices than some want to admit. Tied with Russia, Saudi Arabia accounts for 13% of the world's oil exports. But for a variety of strategic reasons, The Kingdom has wisely expanded energy goals, namely into the natural gas, nuclear, and renewable sectors This makes perfect sense: for example, natural gas is the world's go-to fuel, to lower greenhouse gas emissions and backup intermittent wind and solar power. Quietly, a 45% gain over the past 20 years, Saudi Arabia's proven gas reserves have ballooned to nearly 300 Tcf, which is just a little less than what the U.S. has as easily the world's largest gas producer. Today, Saudi Arabia produces almost 13 Bcf/d. For comparison's sake, Pennsylvania produces about 19 Bcf/d. Natural gas generates around 60% of Saudi Arabia's electricity, with oil providing the rest. Given that 45% of Saudi Arabia's 34 million people are under the age of 24, more domestic gas demand will be essential to the country's lofty social and economical goals. A key emerging focus, however, will be exporting gas to an increasingly gas-thirsty world. At the end of April, on top of announcing the sale of its first LNG cargo, state-owned titan Saudi Aramco claimed discussions with numerous partners around the world on potential joint ventures in gas. The plan is to invest ~$175 billion in gas over the next decade in the U.S., Russia, and elsewhere: "Saudi Arabia Ventures Into U.S. Natural Gas." Saudi Arabia also has extensive plans for more nuclear and renewable power. Make no mistake, this push to diversify is to free up more oil for export, forever Saudi Arabia's economic driver and an irreplaceable commodity enjoying constant 1-2% annual demand growth globally. Since oil is a designed transport fuel, the Kingdom wisely wants to change the bad energy policy of using 725,000 b/d of oil in the summer to generate electricity. One set of plans proposes building two nuclear reactors by 2020, and get 16 built by 2030. Nuclear will obviously dedicated for electricity but also desalination (to me, the latter is as important a vital environmental goal as there is in the world). Unfortunately, this is sure to bring more security concerns to the Middle East region. In addition, over the past six years, the Saudis have announced plans of $350 billion in solar power. But, virtually no solar construction has started in Saudi Arabia. Fatih Birol, Executive Director of the International Energy Agency, reports that "There has been a lot of stop and go. There’s a need to increase electricity generation, decrease oil-based power, and make use of the huge solar potential.” Up 40% this year alone, higher oil prices continue to negatively impact Saudi Arabia in the sense that it gives leadership less of an incentive to diversify an overly oil-based economy. This is really the opposite of what happens in importing nations, where rising oil prices incentivize more diversification. Yet, the push for more gas and more renewables illustrates solid forward thinking for such an oil-dependent regime. And the goal for more gas production and exports from Saudi Arabia illustrates how U.S. LNG sellers will increasingly be facing major competition around the world - making policy support from our leaders in Washington, DC even more crucial. Just like it has done with oil, Saudi Arabia will be getting a firmer grip on the energy needs of the developing economies , clearly another political development that U.S. policy must strategically counter. Follow Jude on Twitter. 