Off the coast of Massachusetts sits the picturesque vacation locale of Martha’s Vineyard. While life there on the island is generally lovely, a few years ago the island’s residents realized their gas prices were meaningfully higher than those on the mainland (about $0.56 more per gallon, of which only $0.21 could reasonable be the result of higher transportation costs). Furthermore, despite decreases in oil prices the gas never seemed to get any cheaper. The residents were convinced this was clear cut evidence of illegal price fixing by a subset of the stations – so convinced in fact that they filed a lawsuit. On the one hand the island’s residents seemed to have a logical argument. A small number of gas station were charging prices well above marginal cost and those prices remained high even when competitive forces should have caused them to drop. They likely felt they had a proverbial open and shut case and were a hop, skip and a jump away from filling up their cars and boats for a lot less. Given these facts, I’m sure the plaintiffs were quite surprised when the court rejected their case and then an appeals court upheld this decision. How could this happen? Clearly these gas stations were exploiting their market power to charge higher prices, doesn’t that have to be illegal? The thing is, firms independently charging higher prices isn’t a crime. Price fixing requires some actual communication and agreement between the firms about their scheme – and the court said there was no evidence of this type of formal collusion. Instead, the court found that the market for gasoline on the island was “particularly conducive” to tacit collusion – which is simply an unstated realization by firms that competing on price will harm their profits. Remember, the first rule of tacit collusion is no one talks about the collusion, otherwise it’s no longer tacit and the residents would likely have won their case. While any rational firm knows price competition decreases profits, its actually quite hard for a given set of firms to resist the temptation to cut prices. After all, when profits are really high, at least one owner realizes they could drop prices by just a little and capture a lot of profitable business. Even the members of OPEC, who formally collude on output but have no way to monitor and punish each others behavior, regularly cheat on their quotas because of the temptation of higher profits. Because of this, we rarely see sustained tacit collusion across a large number of firms. So what are the magical conditions for tacit collusion that the court was talking about on the island that kept prices high? Well, first we need a small number of firms. As the number of firms increases, the benefits of cheating by incrementally lowering prices exceed the benefits of cooperating by keeping prices at the same level as your competitors. Second, you need there to be little threat of entry into the market by someone from outside of the market. Without barriers to entry, another firm attracted by the high profits would enter and compete for market share for cutting prices. On Martha’s Vineyard, the island’s government has to issue a permit for a new station and hadn’t done so in decades. Finally, you need some way for firms to monitor and verify the prices of competitors to make sure no one is cheating. If firms shared their prices with each other, that would make a good case for formal collusion. However, gas stations on the island (like all gas stations) publicly post their prices and thus can monitor each other’s activities without ever talking. It is partly for this reason that recent academic work has found gas stations in other settings were also able to sustain tacit collusion. While I’m not rending my garments about the gasoline expenses of Martha’s Vineyard’s residents – this situation is actually quite instructive for thinking about current debates about the structure of pharmaceutical pricing and attempts to end confidential discounts (i.e. rebates). What we learn from the example of gasoline stations, is that we should be very wary of creating the necessary conditions for tacit collusion. After all, prescription drug markets already have two of the three important features present in Martha’s Vineyard’s gasoline market: (1) within each therapeutic area there are a small number of competitors; and (2) there is no threat of sudden entry into a therapeautic area (any entry for a branded pharmaceutical product would require a lengthy and public approval process). The pharmaceutical market, however, currently lacks the third important market condition for tacit collusion – publicly posted and verifiable prices. Instead, prices in this market are kept deliberately confidential. This likely increases competition because it makes it hard for firms to monitor secret deviations from tacit collusion. However, this could all be changing. A recent proposed rule by the Department of Health and Human Services aims to end rebates between manufacturers and pharmacy benefits managers (PBMs) and move the system to public and transparent pricing. Under this rule, pharmaceutical manufacturers and PBMs would negotiate public up front discounts that would be observable to the entire market. A reasonable argument in favor of increased transparency for drug prices is that it would actually enhance competition by improving the buyer’s information about other prices in the market. Armed with this information, buyers would be able to cut better deals and more efficiently shop across drugs – assuming that there are a sufficient number sellers willing to bargain. This certainly is a channel that could exist but ultimately the net effect of more transparency would trade-off the impact of providing the structures for tacit collusion with the potential for stronger negotiating by buyers. In considering which of these channels will dominate in the drug market, it should be concerning that the sellers in this market (i.e. pharmaceutical manufacturers), broadly support the regulation to end confidential rebates. While there are likely many reasons for this support, some of it (either explicitly or implicitly) stems from the softening of price competition that would come about as a result of publicly posted prices. We currently have enough problems with establishing competitive pharmaceutical markets that we don’t need to shoot ourselves in the foot by handing over more of the necessary ingredients for tacit collusion. For this reason, we should all hope the administration regains its senses and modifies its proposed rule to maintain the confidentiality of negotiated discounts. That said, there are a number of problems in the current market that do in fact stem from the current structure of rebates. These relate to things such as the amount of cost sharing patients pay and potentially perverse incentives for PBMs and other parts of the supply chain. These problems, however, should be addressed directly as I discuss in this congressional testimony and will write more about in the future. In the meantime, let’s make sure that our attempts to solve one problem don’t throw the baby out with the bath water.