An evolved consumer of fashion goods invests in quality and workmanship. Their purchases are informed by ideals of sustainability and mindfulness. For them, acquiring apparel or accessories are not determined solely on the merits of aesthetic—although style still continues to inspire a fashion purchase. Whether items will last, if they can be used multiple times and the type of materials used in its creation are now crucial points considered by the conscious fashion bunch. Whereas never being caught dead in the same outfit was a thing in decades past, today is about being clever and creative in repeating garments. This is an era where the adage that “less is more” is more relevant than ever. The fashion world, after having marinated in consumption mentality for decades, now hails the serial repeater of outfits. You will find that even style icons and taste makers are making bold statements that favor recycling and up-cycling garments. Kate Middleton is notorious for wearing the same outfits to multiple appearances and she’s garnered only praises for it. First Lady of the US Michelle Obama has inspired many to take on a new perspective to wearing the same outfits as eco-friendly and practical. Even French fashion innovators are propagating uniform dressing, resulting in a look that is street cool. Think Emmanuell Alt and her skinny pants and blazer. Parisian goddess Ines de la Fressange also joins this roster in her signature white shirt and ballet flats. If just like these forward-thinkers, you too would like to start building a smart and sustainable wardrobe, then consider these style essentials. Shapewear from HEIST Most of the time, we buy more clothes or discard garments on the premise that they no longer fit well. While weight-loss or gain are initial factors that determine how our clothes will fall on our bodies, finding the right undergarment is just as essential. The right fitting bra or a pair of good underpants can actually make all the difference between keeping a pair of well made ourtfit or tossing it in the bin. Heist was found in 2015 with the intention of producing underwear that actually works. The team behind it listened to their clients—women—to find out what it is that they truly needed. As a result, Heist began to develop designs for undergarments that provided ultimate comfort. This season, the label is expanding into shapewear, bringing together design and technology to create pieces that make clothes look better while ensuring that wearers are comfortable. The Outer Body and High Waist by Heist feature “revolutionary HeroPanels that shape, smooth and slim...taking up to two inches off the waist.” Your Best Life In Skin Loungewear Clothes we wear the most are the ones that feel comfortable. Think about it. Fancy trousers will likely see less mileage than a trusty pair of drawstring pants. Same goes for a corseted top versus a slinky silk camisole that falls effortless from the shoulders. Chances are, you’ll end up wearing the latter more. New York-based loungewear label Skin was built upon the idea that garments should feel like second skin. The company, which operates from NYC’s garment district, uses only the finest organic cottons, silks and organic cotton blends. Its simple, timeless yet ultra comfortable pieces are crafted so that they can be worn to sleep, while working from home, when grabbing a quick lunch out or for cocktails with friends. Skin Founder Susan Beischel explains, “We lead such hectic and busy lives. I want to offer the world a soothing palate of clothing to comfort and cocoon in 24/7, no matter what the endeavor. Our skin is the largest organ of the body. We should address it with luxurious fabrics everyday, giving us a platform to feel comfortable to live our best lives.” Sustainable Sportswear With Econyl Performance sports apparel that use nylon and other tech fabrics leave a significant global warming impact. Manufacturing of nylon for sports or performance apparel consumes massive amounts of crude oil and emits carbon dioxide. It was in knowing this that mindful clothing companies began looking for alternatives that would lessen carbon footprint of their products. Since the introduction of Econyl 2007, more and more fashion labels have integrated the use of these fabrics into their designs. This breakthrough material is a “regenerated nylon fiber made with discarded waste collected from landfills and oceans (fishing nets and fabric straps).” Once woven, Econyl fabrics resemble fresh nylon. The striking difference lies in that Econyl can be “recycled, recreated and repurposed infinitely.” Just last April, Boho-inspired fashion company Free People introduced its maiden collection of performance wear crafted using Econly. The launch marked the company’s foray into the creation of a more “sustainable future.” Pieces from the collection using Econyl include a sports bra, a long sleeve top as well as performance-friendly leggings. “Essential wear” from Ukrainian-based label Norba also use Econly for the creation of various garments that can worn from the gym to after hours. Founded by sisters Olha and Helen Norba just last year, the label subscribes to the philosophy that: “Life is too short to change your clothes several times a day. Wear something essential.” And by essential, Norba refers to garments that make women feel good in their own skin. The idea: to create a cohesive wardrobe that merges the active lifestyle at the gym or doing sports with daily routines. Pieces That Last From Total White's Cruise Collection Cruise collections are important for fashion houses because they are the transitional pieces that will take wearer from the winter season to summer months. And because they are transitional in nature, pieces created for cruise are more often wearable throughout the year. This makes it versatile and ideal for a clever, cohesive and compact wardrobe all year long. Total White’s Cruise 2019 features seven key looks that, when mixed and matched, can take wearers from a business trip out of town to a holiday in idyllic, remote locales. The collection is essentially a compendium of fashion essentials that celebrate the many facets of today’s quintessential girl boss. What’s interesting about pieces from Total White is that they are all done in white, paying homage to the label’s roots in bridal wear. Designers at Total White lend insight into their RTW cruise pieces. “Our women is not very much a jetsetter or party animal. She not seeking for hype but appreciate femininity and style.” They reference the character of Anne Hathaway in “The Hustle” explaining that, “only the coolest and most self confident girls choose Total White.”