"The kingdom of Saudi Arabia does not want a war in the region nor does it seek that," the country's Foreign Minister told reporters on Sunday. Adel al-Jubeir's message to Teheran and the watching world was that his country "will do what it can to prevent this war," although, "reaffirm[ing] that in the event [Iran] chooses war, the kingdom will respond with all force and determination, and it will defend itself and its interests." The country's official press agency reported that "Al-Jubeir said that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia calls upon the international community to take a firm stance against this regime in order to stop and prevent it from spreading destruction and chaos throughout the world." Al-Jubeir was direct in accusing Iran of "committing countless crimes" which risked destabilizing the region and said that "our security and religion are a red line... The Iranian regime has directly and through its proxies sought to provoke unrest and supported terrorist and extremist groups and organizations. Over the past decades, the countries of the region have suffered from the crimes of the Iranian regime and its interventions which are too numerous to count."    Also on Sunday, "His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz, Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, has received a telephone call from U.S. Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo. During the telephone conversation, they discussed developments in the region and efforts to enhance security and stability in the region." Referring to reports that the U.S. had sought and received an agreement to deploy forces from allied territory in the region, the press agency reported that Al-Jubeir had said that "the GCC states have agreements with the United States, which is an ally and friendly state, stressing the importance of maintaining the security and stability of this very important and sensitive region, which is the main source of oil, to the international economy." Saudi Arabia blames Iran for the drone strikes on its pipelines, which, in the words of the country's vice minister for defense, were “terrorist acts, ordered by the regime in Tehran, and carried out by the Houthis.” The country also holds Iran responsible for the attack on its oil tankers last weekend. On Friday, Reuters reported that "Iran’s elite Revolutionary Guards (IRGC) are 'highly likely' to have facilitated attacks last Sunday on four tankers including two Saudi ships off Fujairah in the United Arab Emirates, according to a Norwegian insurers’ report seen by Reuters. On the other side of the standoff, Iran's Fars news agency reported that "the commander of Iran's Army Major General Moussavi warned that the country's Armed Forces will respond to any strategic mistake by enemies with a crushing strike," and the head of Iran's IRGC Hossein Salami said that the country is "in an atmosphere of a full-blown intelligence war with the U.S. and the front of enemies of the Revolution and the Islamic system." The recent tanker and pipeline attacks have panicked Saudi Arabia with a fear that its economic lifeblood is more vulnerable than before. The New York Times reported on Friday that "rapid changes in technology may mean that the Saudi infrastructure is more exposed than previously thought... United Nations experts have estimated, for instance, that drones used by the Houthis have a range of nearly 1,000 miles allowing them to reach well into Saudi Arabia." The newspaper quoted one energy analyst saying that "the fact that they managed to reach tankers and a pipeline... means they could strike at the heart of Saudi interests if they wanted to." All of which is but a backdrop to the path to 'inadvertent' war now being followed by all sides. As the Gulf News said on Saturday: "The worry on which the world should focus is not a deliberate and overt Iranian attack, but a miscalculation that spirals into war." And that risk has become significantly greater in recent days with Iran's mobilization of proxy militias in Iraq.  "Iran’s most prominent military leader has recently met Iraqi militias in Baghdad and told them to 'prepare for a proxy war," the Guardian reported on Thursday. And so even as the leaders of Iran and the U.S. publicly maintain that a full-blown conflict is not on the cards, it is the mobilization of those loosely controlled and much more trigger-happy proxies on both sides that carries the most serious risk of writing the script for what happens next.  "The Kingdom is following with great concern the regional and international developments," Saudi Arabia's Foreign Ministry tweeted on Sunday, "which are escalating as a result of the aggressive actions of the Iranian regime and its proxies in the region," adding that, "the Iranian regime is not looking for security and stability in the region... The Kingdom affirms that if the other side chooses war, the Kingdom will respond firmly and decisively, and it will defend Itself and its interests." 