The trading week ending Friday (May 17) saw the Russian ruble atop the list of foreign exchange performance rankings, thereby joining the yen and Swiss franc in making gains against the dollar, at a time when risk appetite has been firmly off thanks to the ongoing US-Chinese trade tensions. Apart from the Israeli shekel, it seems the Russian currency was also the only Central & Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa (CEEMEA) currency to rally against the euro. That momentum has now carried forward into the current week. At the time of writing (11:40 EST on Monday, May 20), the ruble had gained 0.5% versus the dollar changing hands at RUB 64.45, and was up 0.4% to trade at RUB 71.94 against the euro. A direct correlation can be drawn into between rising oil prices and the ruble's uptick. While demand for Russian sovereign bonds – currently at their highest levels since August 2018 on expectations the country's central bank would cut interest rates soon to send yields lower while boosting prices – is also being seen as supportive for the currency, higher and firmer oil prices remain the key driver.    The ruble rose in near tandem with US-Iranian tensions pushing Brent crude prices up by $2.5 per barrel last week on perceived risks of supply disruptions, as Washington and Tehran exchanged heated words in an escalating geopolitical tussle. Subsequently, OPEC and its Russian-led non-OPEC crude producing partners indicated they would probably maintain production cuts which have helped support prices this year, following their ministerial monitoring committee meeting, known as the JMMC, on Sunday (May 19) in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Market conjecture suggests the Russians want to ditch the ongoing production cuts that have resulted in 1.2 million barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil being take out of the global supply pool, but played along in Jeddah, at least until all parties meet again in Vienna, Austria on June 26. While Russia thinks the job of market rebalancing is done and wants to raise production, OPEC's de-facto leader Saudi Arabia is worried about a possible price crash that a potential output increase might end up causing. End result is that Moscow has OPEC where it wants it. On paper, the Russians undertake just over a sixth (230,000 bpd) of headline 1.2 million bpd cut, and appear to be sticking to it. The output cuts have helped oil prices to rise more than 30% this far into the current trading year but Brent, the global proxy benchmark, remains stubbornly range-bound oscillating in the $70-$75 per barrel bracket given demand concerns in the wake of the US-China trade tiff, European slowdown and Brexit chaos. Moscow appears to be at peace with oil prices above $60 per barrel, and Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak has made little secret of it. From time to time, Novak subtly dangles the threat of the Russians breaking ranks and upping production. His words in Jeddah, as cited by CNBC, were in a similar vein. "We are supportive of continuing our cooperation with our colleagues from other countries. But this continuation could depend to various extents on how the [market] situation unfolds and what the forecasts for supply and demand will be on the market. If it turns out that there will be a shortfall in the market then we will be prepared to examine options linked with a possible increase in production." Should Russia decide to go its own way, OPEC – which I have always said lacks an exit strategy for the ongoing cuts – will be in more than a spot of bother. It is already grappling with market share issues at it bids to support prices. The end of OPEC/non-OPEC cooperation has to come at some point, sooner rather than later. But until then, ruble traders, quite used to short-term volatility, can look to the upside for the oil-linked currency. 