The data gurus are at it again – shopping for correlations and finding inverted yield curves often occur before recessions. And, look – yields are inverted today. Oh, boy! Now we can predict with assurance that a recession is coming. Well… unfortunately, there is a problem with that blanket belief. The forces causing today’s inverted yield curve are entirely different –even opposite – from those in the past. Let’s start with the graph that the data gurus say is proof positive... Okay, the picture is interesting, but what about the causal factors? The common factor for inverted yield curves is “tight money.” This term is straightforward, but needs to be understood well. Investopedia provides a good explanation (underlining is mine): Each tight money period had different “overheated” issues and booms/bubbles. Here are the inverted yield curve periods: 1990 – Here were the issues that caused the problems. Mid-1990 was a terrible time for banks (e.g., Citibank was down 50% in three months). (Underlining is mine) 1998/9 – No, there’s no recession here, but there is a temporarily inverted yield curve. Note the cause is the 10-year bond yield declining below the short-term level. Then it rose and all was well. 2000 – The major issue was the Internet bubble, which popped in March. Note that the restrictive money policy continued until the 2001 recession 2008 – The Great Recession was the culmination of a number of high growth and boom factors, especially in the linked housing and financial bubbles. Note the extended period of tight money before the recession officially started 2019 – There is that 1998/99 action again, with the 10-year yield falling below the short-term yield So, how shall we view today’s inverted curve? We need to start by keeping in mind how we got here – through a never-before-experienced, Federal Reserve-induced, abnormally low (near zero) rate period. Instead of capital markets setting the short rates, the Fed kept them at a negative real return level for a decade. Now we can turn to the recent history as the Federal Reserve slowly allowed the short rate to rise toward “normal” – that is, toward the level the capital markets would have set through normal supply and demand. The problem is, they ran into another abnormality – signs and concerns about slowing growth. Did the “higher” (albeit still below normal) rates cause it? No, but the coincidental picture was there and affected the Fed's thinking. As a result, the Fed announced a “pause.“ Then, as slowing growth worries and tariff spats increased, Fed-speak gave signs of the possibility of lower rates ahead. That probability has entered the fixed income market forecasts, making holding longer-term bonds more desirable. And so investors acted. Longer rates have fallen, making investors doubly happy with locked-in higher yields and newfound gains. So, the 10-year rate has now crossed the Fed-determined short rate for now. The bottom line The data gurus' simple correlation of inverted = recession is wrong for this period. The Federal Reserve is still filling in for the capital markets at setting the short-term rate. Worried about slower growth (and perhaps that they may have caused some of the slowdown), the Fed may even push rates down again. That means bonds are looking good again, hence investors want to lock up those yields before their money market fund yields head back down. Therefore, the U.S. is not headed for a recession due to a hot economy and boom/bubble causing the Federal Reserve to cool the economy with a tight money policy. Instead, interest rates remain low and may even be lowered. Does this mean a recession cannot happen? No, because there are economic issues that could cause a downturn. However, if easy money can save the day, a recession will be avoided.