A recent official’s reference to American LNG exports as “freedom molecules” caused a minor kerfuffle on social media although it was hardly out of step with Congress’ renaming French fries “freedom fries” in 2002 or sauerkraut “freedom cabbage” in World War I. But it does raise an important issue, namely the value of diversifying energy sources, especially in Europe which relies heavily on Russian natural gas, and the role intangibles play in energy investments. Such is not a new issue. Back in the mid-1980s, promoters of an Alaskan LNG export project argued that the Japanese should buy U.S. LNG because of the political friction caused by our trade deficit, and in the late 1990s, I heard Australian LNG developers insist that India was in need of clean energy (very true), one factor behind Enron’s decision to develop the Dabhol power project there. In each case, the price of LNG determined the outcome, and it was always too high. Unfortunately, the value of intangibles is uncertain, allowing opinions to diverge significantly between sellers and buyers. It is true that many LNG buyers are utilities who can pass along their fuel costs, but that hardly means they are indifferent to prices, nor are companies always willing to be tools of their nations’ foreign policies.    Algeria found this out in the early 1980s, when the French government agreed to pay a premium for its LNG purchases, justifying it as a form of foreign aid. (The sellers rationalized it based on the superior characteristics of natural gas as a fuel.) However, when gas markets weakened in Europe and France, the government ceased to cover the premium and Gaz de France insisted the price be renegotiated. The fact that many buyers are utilities that are regulated monopolies has sometimes disguised the problem. Passing through above-market prices can seem acceptable to some, especially when there is also access to cheaper supplies. U.S. utilities were willing to pay exorbitant prices for Algerian LNG in the 1970s because they were averaging it in with price-controlled domestic gas. As price controls were lifted, domestic production soared and regulators forced cancellation of the contracts. U.S. LNG exporters have prospered partly because of abundant shale gas, but also due to their entrepreneurial spirit, a willingness to be flexible about supplies and offer competitive prices. This includes some small-scale sales at high prices to customers in the Caribbean, for example, but most larger sales are at more moderate price levels. (See figure) This is animal spirits at their best. But it turns to irrational exuberance when thinking there is a large market for LNG at premium prices. In theory, governments in China, India and elsewhere might be willing to pay premiums for small amounts of LNG, but in practice, they both tend to be fairly price-conscious. (See Figure) The double digit prices that were common in Asia a few years ago reflected the impact of the nuclear power shutdown in Japan after Fukushima, and those prices are unlikely to be repeated. Now, there is some enthusiasm for sales to European countries, which are thought willing to pay higher prices for supply diversification. Understandably, countries like Poland, the Ukraine and the Baltic states have a interest in reducing their dependence on Russian natural gas supplies, but they are more likely to use the availability of U.S. LNG exports as leverage in negotiations with Gazprom, which, despite its Soviet-era origins, remains a very market-oriented company. And as Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin noted recently, not only is Russian gas cheaper, but the U.S. can hardly be considered a reliable trading partner in these days of increasing tariffs, real and threatened. Which highlights the danger of relying on intangible benefits in promoting investments such as LNG export plants: not only are there differing perceptions of the value of, say, supply diversification, but the perceptions can change abruptly and unpredictably with evolving conditions. U.S. LNG exporters should focus on their ability to supply a competitively-priced product, not on a belief that they provide an intangible benefit. 