The oil price has plummeted in recent days, with a spectacular drop of $3.51 on May 23. Well, not spectacular (see figure) but definitely notable, especially given an extremely bullish geopolitical situation. Venezuelan production appears likely to remain near zero in coming months, Iranian exports have apparently dropped, and contamination of Russian oil has shut down the 1 mb/d Druzhba pipeline for an indefinite period, “leaving refiners in Europe scrambling to find supplies.” Are markets overreacting to news of the day? To the extent that Trump’s tweets threatening tariffs on Mexico are moving prices, probably. They appear to be only slightly more credible than his threats of destruction against Iran and North Korea, bluster intended as political leverage. The president’s advisers will almost certainly convince him that tariffs on Mexico will have a negative impact on the U.S. economy, and could jeopardize his trade agreement with Canada and Mexico. Another tweet from him could easily send oil prices soaring (and leaving those now short sweating out the weekend news flow). The potential for a recession to drive oil demand down should not be dismissed. Many in the Administration have pointed out the current economic boom has outlasted many alarmist predictions, but it is worth noting that a slowdown is likely to be obvious only after it is well underway. There are many indicators of economic direction, but none are infallible and one common mistake is thinking there will be no impact from uncertainty when the impact is only delayed. There is also considerable turmoil and uncertainty in the physical oil market from a variety of quarters, including a surplus of light oil and dearth of heavy oil, primarily the loss of Venezuelan crude imports. At the same time, the collapse in the Venezuelan economy (and oil production) has reduced U.S. crude exports to that country (see figure), where they were blended with heavy oil to make it lighter and easier to process. This could be contributing a portion of the recent crude inventory build, although refineries affected by Midwest flooding might be a bigger factor. But as the next figure shows, the IEA anticipates market fundamentals being relatively tight in the second half of this year, especially after the weakness from 2Q18 to 1Q19. Although the call on OPEC plus stocks (roughly the difference between demand and supply) is projected to decline slightly (300 tb/d in the second half of 2019 versus the second half of 2018), production from Venezuela and Iran should be nearly 2 mb/d lower than in the second half of 2018. A strong recession could offset that, in theory. In 2008, fourth quarter global oil demand was about 3 mb/d lower than in the fourth quarter of 2007, but that was an extremely severe recession which is hardly likely to be repeated. A drop of 1 mb/d, likely in the case of the first recession by tweet, would still leave the market tightening. But without a recession and strong performance in the U.S. shale sector (watch those Permian pipelines!), prices are highly likely to be higher in the second half of this year. WTI at $70 is easily possible. Indeed, by the time this is posted, the market could be set for a rebound. (Or not.) 