I feel like I’m ankle deep in seawater as I boogie in a New Orleans disco while a hurricane rages outdoors. Face it, brothers and sisters, the market at 18 times earnings stands fully priced and dangerous. We’ve seen Boeing and Qualcomm taken out and shot. Facebook is called on the carpet almost daily for mishandling clients’ data. Nobody now can model Apple’s numbers if a full-fledged trade war with China unfolds. What happens to bank stocks if money market rates keep sliding down? Energy stocks trade like there’s too much world supply while paper like Alcoa, U.S. Steel and Freeport-McMoRan stand cut in half or worse. How can Street pundits hold foolishly bullish, projecting the S&P 500 Index forges past 3,000 this year? As 10-year Treasurys slide towards a 2% yield, the $64 question is does such a flopperoo suggest recession, commodity deflation, a rising federal deficit, troubling bank loan losses and slippage in corporate operating earnings? In short, do the trappings of a down cycle await us? Consider, the country is saddled with a Federal Reserve Board that can’t find its ass with both hands. First, they feared inflation, but today won’t dare deal with deflationary indicators facing the country: Housing starts turned wobbly, Detroit’s auto selling rates rest flattish, capital spending, expected to turn zippy with the corporate tax rate cut goes nowhere. Ex the inventory build past quarter and better trade stats, quarterly, GDP rose little more than 1%. This reflects sluggish personal consumption expenditures, the critical sector of GDP composites. Carnage in the heartland is deep-seated but rarely remarked upon. Not only U.S. Steel and Alcoa but oil service stocks still getting recommended by analysts, trade like death warmed over. Schlumberger, forever considered an institutional grade property, currently sells to yield over 5%, a rare occurrence. A few years ago, management blithely overestimated worldwide drilling and exploration industry budgets. Occidental Petroleum is leveraging itself dangerously in its bid for Anadarko Petroleum. I’m attracted by Occidental’s yield over 5%, but oil prices next five years determine the wisdom of this deal. Exxon Mobil’s five-year chart traces a classically bearish head and shoulders formation. If China tops out, worldwide copper demand and pricing work much lower. Freeport-McMoRan, a Carl Icahn pick, is close to sinking into single digits. Oil, copper, steel and aluminum already dwell in depressed-priced territory with no sign of improvement. Industrial heartland properties like Deere and Caterpillar face declining demand abroad. Dow Chemical suffers from depressed margins in petrochemicals, worldwide. Western Europe hardly grows more than 1%, even with 10-year Treasurys yielding zilch in Germany. Is there any magical property in our 10-year Treasurys touching down even at a 2% floor? Our stock market hardly yields 2% and still sells at a big premium over book value. I thumbed back to my 60-year charts on interest rates and stock market valuation for historical guidance on their interplay. First, lemme point out that I’ve owned AT&T for some time with nothing to show for it, despite its yield north of 6%. Nobody cares. Before dealing with interplay between interest rates, inflation and stock market valuation be aware of enormous changes going on in sector weighting since the 1950s, pre-technology America. In the fifties, when you graduated Harvard with an M.B.A. you hoped for a career at DuPont, U.S. Steel, Dow Chemical or Standard Oil. Maybe, Coca-Cola. Until Bell Laboratories licensed its discovery of the transistor, Texas Instruments and Intel were small potatoes. American Express was the growth stock in financials with the entry of its green card. Boeing was about to introduce its 707 jet aircraft, putting airlines on the map. RPMs grew 25% or more, per annum. General Motors and U.S. Steel were bluest of blue chips. Even as late as 1990, technology and financials lumped together hardly equaled oil sector weighting. Industrials and materials sectors were sizable then. Now the market is dominated by technology and financials. Energy and industrials are lesser lights. Near trillion-dollar market caps like Apple, Amazon and Microsoft along with a few other internet and e-commerce names comprise over 20% of S&P 500 Index weighting. Tech paper trades at least 50% more volatile than the S&P 500. Interest rates, whether they be 2% or 5%, have no impact here. If projected revenues for these babies come in 1% below analyst consensus, all hell breaks loose. As late as 2001, General Electric stood as numero uno in the S&P 500, a 4% weight at $416 billion. Microsoft, at least was runner up with Exxon Mobil at its heels, but nobody got rich on Exxon. When macroeconomics is a big yawn, today’s situation, the market cottons on to story stocks and makes wild extrapolations of earnings and price-earnings ratios. Low interest rates and dormant inflation invariably push up price-earnings ratios for growth stocks. I’m hanging in with Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook, overweighted, fingers crossed. No Apple and less of Alibaba. The analyst consensus is useless because invariably they get caught up in euphoric rationalizations of price-earnings multiples and Ebitda ratios. Nobody factors in GAAP versus non-GAAP variances in earnings which easily range over 20%. Consider, price-earnings ratios by 2015 broke out of a 10-year resistance at mid-teens. History confirms such valuation just so long as 30-year Treasurys rest below a 4% yield. A real yield of 2.5% keeps the market ticking comfortably at 16 times earnings. But the real yield currently is hardly more than 1% which suggests players see lower inflation numbers ahead. All this is confirmed by commodity deflation and no more than 3% wage gains, if that, for the heartland. A P/E ratio of 18, what we have now is only confirmed when the real long-term Treasury yield is between 2% and 4%. The market has built in buoyant operating profit margins for major corporations but this is a pure seat-of-the-pants projection. Back of mind is the concept of necessary fallibility. Charts can’t isolate inflection points. You can miss these by years. Axiomatically, politics leads economics and our president is a perpetual loose cannon. Ultimate irony on leading indicators is they don’t always work when you expect them to kick in. Corporate liquidity, now enormous, hasn’t worked in forecasting rising capital expenditures. It’s more fashionable to buy back stock which favors management above shareholders. Net, net, I see the present price-earnings ratio near 18 as an iffy prospect. Everything has to go right to sustain such a pricey level. I’m more comfortable with a mid-teens P/E and this would take the S&P 500 down 10%. Added to my AT&T position with the yield over 6%, competitive with anything that walks, inclusive of high-yield bond paper, closer to a 5% return. For internet and e-commerce paper like Amazon and Facebook, let’s hope the market is focused on earnings power a year or two ahead, but this is bull market kind of rationalization. Sosnoff and / or his managed accounts own: Qualcomm, Facebook, Freeport-McMoRan bonds, Occidental Petroleum, AT&T, Amazon, Microsoft and Alibaba. msosnoff@gmail.com