In late October I wrote a piece titled The Upcoming Fed Engineered Recession in which I detailed my view that Chairman Powell and his FOMC voting members colleagues were overstressing the U.S. economy with their combination of rate hikes and balance sheet deleveraging. As any good strategies does, I did not pin myself to a timeline. However, I do believe that given the six to nine months lag for monetary policy to take full effect, my thesis remains correct. Since late January, our early economic indicators, which include advance trade orders, inventory buildup, small business hiring, among others, have all deteriorated and are now flashing bright red warning signs. While the Fed has stopped its rate hike program late last year, it continues to deleverage its balance sheet at a quick pace, thereby drawing liquidity from the market (in March the Fed announced it would cease the deleveraging operations this September). Moreover, 15 months into the trade war with China, the U.S. economy is beginning to feel the impact of this policy, at a time when the overall global economy is slowing sharply. Lastly, the benefits to the overall economy of the 2017 tax cut appear to be minimal, as there has been little if any material repatriation of foreign capital to the United States, and U.S. corporations have not increased capital expenditures from previous years in a meaningful manner. So, what does it all mean for investors going forward? There are three likely scenarios for investors to contemplate. 1. The Fed does nothing, and the U.S. economy slows to below 2% GDP growth but averts a recession. This is a "safe" and very plausible scenario, as the Fed continues to call low inflation "transitory" and "temporary." This would likely mean that stocks remain in a trading range and will be more influenced by outside political and geopolitical factors than anything else. 2. The Fed views the rise in oil prices and impact of tariffs as inflationary and decides to raise rates one more time. This is the least likely scenario, but it should not be ignored or viewed as impossible. Another rate hike, given the current global macro environment, would almost certainly cause a significant selloff in stocks, followed by a prolonged period of flat performance. 3. The most likely scenario is that the Fed stays the course through the summer and announces a shift in policy in September or October. This may come in the form of ceasing its balance sheet deleveraging, or in form of a single ¼% rate cut (futures markets are pricing this scenario as the most likely). Should this occur, markets will likely react negatively in the short-term, as investors are likely to view this as the Fed admitting that the U.S. economy is in trouble. However, the selloff in stocks will likely be short lived, setting up for a solid rally in 2020. At the same time I published the predecessor piece to this commentary, I indicated that I expect the S&P 500 to end 2018 around 2,700 and 2019 between 2,800 and 2,850. I overshot the 2018 year-end target, but believe I have a good shot at being spot on for this year. A two-year pause in equity returns, while unusual, is not unprecedented and has historically led to strong returns in the years following the ‘pause.’ Putting aside predictions about what the Fed may or may not do, historically, when growth has slowed, "growth style" investments have outperformed. While counterintuitive, when growth is abundant, "value style" investments outperform as there is little incentive for investors to pay a growth premium. Conversely, when growth becomes scarce, premiums are well worth it. Investors are smart to focus on high-quality companies with strong balance sheets that are gaining market share from competitors, increasing their margins and when possible, are returning free-cash-flow to investors via rising dividends or share buybacks.