Oil markets have endured another torrid month from the perspective of those with a bullish stance on front-month contracts, as much of the volatility we have witnessed has been largely skewed against long bets, i.e. those speculating on higher oil prices, versus short-sellers betting the other way. At the time of writing (9:58 EST, May 31), Brent, the global proxy benchmark, was down 3.13% or $2.09 at $64.78 per barrel while the West Texas Intermediate was down 2.92% or $1.65 to $54.94. Both benchmarks, once projected to hit $70 and $80 respectively by market commentators quick to jump on the geopolitical risk and supply constriction bandwagon, are now struggling to hold the floor at $55 and $65 languishing at three-month lows. That's because oil is a story not just of supply but of demand as well, and concerns over global economic growth were already tempering the latter to consumption levels well below 100 million barrels per day (bpd), with global demand growth in the region of 1.1 to 1.3 million bpd. Given such a backdrop, making overtly bullish predictions, initially predicated on OPEC and non-OPEC cuts being rolled over to the end of 2019, and latterly on geopolitical tensions in the Middle East was unwise say the least. As if the macroeconomic dynamic with a German and Chinese slowdown, concerns over OECD demand and the never ending Brexit saga weren't enough, enter Donald Trump. Earlier in May, the U.S. President surprised markets by initially indicating that a deal on trade with China was on the horizon, before going the other way and escalating it with another imposition of fresh tariffs. Overnight, Mexico is feeling Trump's ire, with the President slapping a 10% tariff effective June 10 on all Mexican imports to the U.S. blaming lack of action on "immigration control" by Mexico at the countries' border. Soak it all in, and you have bullish analysts arguing that were it not for Trump, the oil price would have been a lot higher. My riposte – based on the existing global demand dynamic and complications related to economic growth – is that were it not for the geopolitical risk premium that has markedly returned in 2019; the oil price would actually have been a lot lower. Not just China, based on latest available data even European oil demand fell by 0.7 million bpd in March compared to the same month last year. Putting both together, it created the first drop in headline global demand since December 2018. So if there are reasons to be bullish as some were predicting, where is the demand-side evidence? The latest U.S. inventory data, revealing crude stocks fell by a mere 282,000 barrels over the previous week (a fifth of volume predicted by market forecasters), has practically ensured oil benchmarks would end the month of May down by over 10%. As for supply constriction, while OPEC mulls over what it can and needs to do to support prices, U.S. production – despite negative predictions in some quarters – marches on. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), the country's production increased by 97,000 bpd to a record high level of 12.3 million bpd for the week ending May 24. This is likely to continue, as another piece of research suggests U.S. shale independent players are tipped to up production by 16% in 2019. With incremental volumes of U.S. crude heading to the lucrative markets of Asia, refiners – especially ones in South Korea, Taiwan, India and Japan – are readjusting their infrastructure to receive and process American cargoes of primarily light, sweet crude in rising volumes. This in turn presents OPEC with a massive market share dilemma should it opt to maintain its ongoing production cuts of 1.2 million bpd in concert with 10 Russian-led non-OPEC producers. Demand-side already appears shaky, Trump remains as boisterous as ever, and if the OPEC and non-OPEC pact were to collapse, as it has to at some point, the oil bulls may as well go into hiding for the upcoming quarters. 