The current trade tensions with China are headlining, but there’s a new wrinkle: the proposed tariffs with Mexico, which threaten to disrupt large U.S./Mexico supply chains and derail the U.S.MCA. On May 30, President Trump tweeted: The U.S. imports $345 billion from Mexico and exports $245 billion to Mexico. The overall trade is fluid, with automobile parts and manufacturing crossing back and forth. It is estimated that about one-third of the value of a U.S. vehicle is from production in Mexico. About 74% of all foreign parts used by vehicle assemblers in Mexico that export to the U.S. are imported from the U.S. Deutsche Bank estimates the cost of a 25% tariff to U.S. automakers at $6.3 billion for GM, $3.3 billion for Ford, and $4.8 billion for FCA. The report also estimates a 25% tariff will add, if the tariffs are passed on to the consumers, roughly $2,400 for GM, $2,200 for FCA and $1,600 for Ford. The U.S. imports about 700,000 barrels of crude oil per day from Mexico. (We also export 1.2 million barrels of crude oil per day to Mexico.) Each 5% tariff increase adds about $3 per barrel to the cost of oil.    Skip across the pond to China, which may be the playbook on how well trade negotiations and tariffs proceed. The current tariff imposition in China has, according to the Tax Foundation model, a 0.2% decrease in U.S. GDP. The model further estimates that if the additional proposed Chinese tariffs are imposed, in addition to a 5% tariff on Mexican goods, that U.S. GDP will decline an additional 0.5% and 345,000 jobs will be lost. The Atlanta Fed GDPNow model is showing 1.2% real GDP, which is slightly down. The NY Fed’s model estimates 1.5%, slightly upward. If we average the two models, we get about a 1.35% GDP growth. How could tariffs upset this trend? Consider the most impactful component of the U.S. economy, the consumer. Personal consumption expenses (PCE) is the most significant factor contributing to the U.S. GDP. This represents the goods and services purchased by U.S. consumers. The PCE Index is a measurement of inflation since it represents the price level increase of the products and services purchased by U.S. consumers. On May 31, the Commerce Department announced the PCE index was up 0.3% for April. In addition, April consumer spending was flat, as compared to a revised 1.1% increase in March. One month does not make a trend, but April’s numbers show a slight uptick in inflation and a decline in spending. We haven’t seen May’s numbers, and we won’t, until June 28. May brought us many developments, from tariff increases on Chinese goods to the new rumblings of Mexican tariffs. U.S. consumers use a significant number of products manufactured or imported from China and Mexico, from TV sets and washing machines to avocados and Chevy trucks. Tariffs raise prices, and higher prices change spending habits. Changes in spending habits may be harder to turn around than previously anticipated, and the trendy avocado toast may be replaced by its lower-cost Mediterranean cousin, hummus… With a GDP increase now estimated at a tepid 1.35% and the costs of current and proposed tariffs snowballing, the increase in costs to consumers could accelerate a slowdown in the U.S. economy. What happens next is uncertain, and uncertainty makes for jittery markets and consumers. For more information on the Federal Reserve’s tools for managing economic expansion and contraction, click here to view this blog on Soft Landings. Stay tuned. 