Mexico remained the United States' top trade partner for the third straight month, ahead of China and Canada, according to the data released this morning from the U.S. Census department. China, hobbled by 25% U.S. tariffs on half of its $500 billion-plus imports and its own retaliatory tariffs, finished 2018 as the top U.S. trade partner but remained the third most important U.S. trade partner through April. Along with Canada, the three nations account for about 45 percent of all U.S. trade. Over the last week, President Trump has vowed repeatedly to slap 5% tariffs on all Mexican imports into the United States. Those tariffs, should Trump follow through, are scheduled to be effective beginning on Monday. He was spurred to do so, angered over increasing numbers of Central Americans entering the United States illegally by crossing the U.S.-Mexico border. Those tariffs, he has vowed, would escalate 5% a month to a maximum of 25% if ill-defined goals are not met. He has also done so over the objections of leading Republicans in the Senate and House, including Senate President Mitch McConnell; leading business groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce; and even his own top advisers. Canada isn't exactly in the clear, either. While it's indirect, it has to do with oil. As the imbroglio with Mexico has heated up, independently the trade war with China has continued to escalate. China faces the specter of having 100% of its imports subjected to a 25 percent tariff, although what China could do to avoid that is, as is the case with Mexico, unclear. The impact of the United States in a trade war with its two largest trade partners is having an impact on projections for the global economy. And that is having an impact on the price of oil. The thinking goes that if the economy slows, people will drive less, fly less and buy less, requiring less stuff to be shipped. And that would have a direct impact on Canada's trade with the United States. While many people think most U.S. oil comes from the Middle East, Canada is overwhelmingly the leading importer into the United States, topping 40% of the total. Through April, here are the figures from the U.S. Census Bureau: As I have written previously, China's U.S.-trade has fallen faster this year than at any point in at least 17 years. That doesn't appear to be abating. Through the first four months of 2018, its trade was up 10.42%. Canada's U.S. trade was up 8.20% through the first four months of 2018. Mexico's was increasing at a 10.23% rate. I am often asked in interviews which country will wind up as the nation's No. 1 trade partner? Will it be long-time No. 1 Canada, even with weakening oil prices? Will it be China, which has been the top trade partner the last several years, even with another $250 billion in 25% tariffs possible? Or, will in be Mexico, so critical to the U.S. automotive, energy and perishable trade? My go-to answer is that I am better predicting the past than the future. That's particularly true with President Trump threatening tariffs on automotive imports, although they are as yet ill defined. 