Don't be fooled. It's all a show for the Western world. Russia and China only look like they are new BFFs. With Xi Jinping visiting Vladimir Putin on Wednesday, the story out of Moscow and Beijing is that the two sides have never been closer. They are ready to take on the Western powers, for real this time. They are the new black sheeps of the world, undeservingly so. They’ve had just about enough of this nonsense and are forming a legit multipolar power center, which they will tag team together. “Russia’s and China’s stances on key global issues are similar or coincide, as diplomats say,” Putin was quoted by Russian news agency Tass as saying today. Russia-China relations "have reached a very high—and without any exaggeration—an unprecedentedly high level,” Putin said, undoubtedly designed to fan the flames that the world’s No. 2 economy, until now almost wholly dependent on the U.S. for trade, was moving into Moscow’s sphere of influence. It is highly doubtful. Russia and China are not BFFs. And Russia can never make up for what the U.S. and Europe do for China. Not today. Not next year. Not in five years. Probably not in ten. They have two things in common: anger over their treatment by Washington and to some extent Brussels, and the energy industry. That’s pretty much it. North Korea is not a problem China and Russia have ever solved or have much of a real interest in solving. If you take Putin at his word, countries have a right to be governed by their own leaders. North Korea is North Korea’s problem, and if everyone thought that way no one would be test firing missiles. The other three things China and Russia have in common differ greatly in real economic and political importance. The most important is the Arctic. Russia is China’s access to that energy rich body of ice-cold water. Another issue where they see eye-to-eye on is Iran. Russia sells weapons to Iran and has energy contracts there. China buys Iranian oil and sanctions on Iran are like a poke in the eye. Lastly, they have Venezuela in common. They are the largest emerging markets investing in and providing lip service to maintaining the hapless Nicolas Maduro in power there. Both countries have lost tons of money lending to Maduro. So that is another thing they have in common. The real fundamental relationship between Moscow and Beijing is all about oil and gas, really. Which makes perfect sense. Russia is China’s neighbor. Russia has a lot of energy to sell. China needs energy. One plus one equals two. The Power of Siberia gas pipeline, linking gas fields in eastern Siberia to China, will begin operations later this year. The project is not the result of tensions with the West. It’s a pure supply, demand and business decision. And it started way back in 2014, when China had no idea that a trade war was coming its way. Russian oil and gas companies faced sanctions back then, but the pipeline already existed on paper before that. A second gas pipeline to China from western Siberia, called the Altai pipeline, is in the works over at Gazprom. It would give it the power to switch supplies between Europe and Asia in case of deeper sanctions. That pipeline isn’t built yet, though China’s National Petroleum Corporation will likely be a funder. They have been talking about this since 2015. Last June, Russia’s state-owned nuclear power company, Rosatom, signed four new nuclear-power agreements with the Chinese government. It was one of the largest nuclear power deals in China-Russian nuclear cooperation. This would be a boon for Rosatom, but they should take a cue from Westinghouse on this one before getting too excited (just saying). “Despite headlines, Russia’s much trumpeted pivot towards Asia is so far not taking place,” says Agathe Demarais, global forecasting director at The Economist Intelligence Unit. There has been little energy supplied by Russia to Asian countries to begin with. Most of it goes to Europe. Moreover, Russian exports to China account for 10.9% of total exports, far lower than the European Union. The EU is more important to Russia both as a market and culturally speaking. China is a new market. It’s a budding friendship. They each have more important friends to contend with. So when the headlines make it look like these two nations are forming some sort of anti-American alliance, consider it media drama and nothing more. “China does not appear to prioritize cementing its relationship with Russia, which it sees as a junior partner,” says Demarais. “It is not clear whether the difficult relationship of both Russia and China with the U.S. has led to a deepening of the Russia-China relationship.” According to the EIU, Russia was one of the first countries in the world to ink a currency swap agreement with China, though this was likely in response to early sanctions in 2014. Russia was preparing for the worst and was wise to do so. This deal makes it possible for Russia and China to conduct energy trade directly in the local currencies without having to use the dollar. Such an agreement aims at strengthening trade ties, but the main goal is to protect Russia—and now China—in case Washington hits them with Iranian-like sanctions that make dollar trade deals punishable with hefty fines. It also matters to China. Chinese banks and companies are finding it harder to obtain dollars as the trade war not only hinders the nation’s ability to earn dollar revenue from exports, but also foreign lenders’ willingness to lend them dollars, the South China Morning Post reported today. It is unclear how troublesome that really is. But does anyone believe that the Russians will step in and lend them rubles instead? I don’t think so, either. 