We usually don’t offer book reviews in this blog but this is a necessary exception. On the subject of Russian energy economics, my Atlantic Council colleague Anders Åslund’s new book “Russia’s Crony Capitalism: The Path from Market Economy to Kleptocracy” is an excellent read – composed by one of the most prolific and erudite authors publishing in the post-Soviet economics and foreign policy space today. This book is essential reading for anyone trying to understand energy markets and the current state of Russia. Dr. Åslund describes in a captivating way how Putin and his close comrades– a rather small group of KGB veterans and friends – have built an economy based on a unique state-private partnership. In the process, they have managed to gain massive amounts of personal wealth and transformed Russia into a kleptocracy. The Russian energy sector is key to understanding Russia. It is corrupt and dominated by state-dominated oil, gas, and pipeline companies (Rosneft, Gazprom, and Transeft respectively). Hydrocarbons are the lifeblood of The Russian Federation's economy, and it is for this reason that President Vladimir Putin oversees the oil and gas giants personally – though the Kremlin would have you believe that decisions are made on behalf of their shareholders. Even board members and CEOs of these companies are just appointed (and well-compensated) clerks. But just how critical are hydrocarbons to the Russian economy? When global oil and gas prices were near all-time highs between 2011 and 2013, oil and gas accounted for 75% of Russia’s export market, 20% of the state’s GDP, and nearly half the state’s revenue. Oil, however, is the far more important fossil fuel to the Russian economy than natural gas. Petroleum and refined products accounted for 55% of Russian exports in 2017. Natural gas comprised only 1% of cross-border sales. In geopolitics, however, gas plays an oversize role. The biggest problem that Gazprom faces is actually selling its gas. This is because Gazprom spent tens of billions funding overcapacity, and has a production overhang of 100 billion cubic meters a year. The company paid exorbitant prices for unnecessary pipelines owned by the Kremlin’s cronies, while keeping most competitors out of the gas sector. However, two privileged companies with ties to Mr. Putin are the exception: Novatek and Rosneft. Both were allowed to violate Gazprom’s monopoly and launched lucrative liquefied natural gas (LNG) projects. Gazprom is also infamous for cutting off gas supplies due to geopolitical events. The company suffered losses both domestically and internationally – until a recent modest recovery. The company's stock price plunged from $29 in 2008 to $3.33 in 2016. Currently, it stands at $6.46 amid Europe’s growing appetite for Russian gas. At one point Ukraine was Russia’s largest gas customer. Gazprom sold its gas to the Ukrainian oligarch Dmytro Firtash, who is now wanted in the U.S., under the market price, to benefit Ukrainian oligarchs and to allegedly receive kickbacks. That changed when Moscow ordered Gazprom to cut cross-border gas supplies the dead of the winter – first in January 2006 and again in January 2009. Russia has since lost that market entirely. Gazprom is now saddled with debt and looking for new markets amidst record low gas prices. Russia’s oil industry – led by Rosneft – is one of the largest in the world. Russia pumps more than 11 million barrels of oil per day – competing with the United States and Saudi Arabia for the title of top producer and is the second most important member of the informal “OPEC+” cartel after Saudi. Rosneft’s success can largely be attributed to the unrestrained ambition of Igor Sechin – one of Putin’s most trusted and closest advisors. Sechin’s appetite for private companies – which drove him to raid or buy up most of Russian’s independent operators including YUKOS, TNK-BP, and Bashneft between 2003 and 2017 – built Rosneft into the oil behemoth it is today – raking in $137 billion gross in 2018. There is a common axiom among observers of post-Perestroika Russia: “The sick man of Europe.” An accurate description given its stagnant economy and poor population growth. Åslund captures this sentiment well, laying out that despite Russia’s attempt to seem strong, the former superpower’s stability is misleading. On the outside, Russia’s current physical appearance is excellent, he says. However he astutely points out that the institutions were built to be highly sophisticated are inefficient at the same time – “a vertical of power restoring the Soviet chain of command.” Åslund correctly posits that “Russia’s economic situation in 2018 can be summarized in two words: stability and stagnation.” There is more than a whiff of Nicholas I police state and Leonid Brezhnev’s stagnation about the country. Already in his mid-sixties, “Putin has made it clear he has no intention of making any significant policy changes or perusing any economic reform,” the author writes. This is evident by Russia’s abysmal GDP growth since the global financial crisis of 2008. After the dizzying boom from 2000-2008, under which Putin oversaw a massive increase in living standards in juxtaposition to the crisis-ridden 1990s, Russia’s annual GDP growth has been 1.5-2% for the past several years, without any increase in living standards. Åslund’s main contention, however, is that Putin is now trapped in a self-imposed system of kleptocracy – where he rules surrounded by a circle of friends from his Leningrad childhood, the FSB and private business partners. The corruption inherent in Russia’s political system has also resulted in an enormous amount of offshore wealth. Nowhere, however, is this corruption more evident than in Russia’s vast energy sector. Åslund has clearly done his research for this well-written page-turner. I would like to have seen him spend more time explaining corporate raidership Russian-style, a defining characteristic of the Russian business practices, something I have written about it elsewhere. Though an easy read, the content may be unapproachable for a total novice in the field. This notwithstanding, simplifying Russia’s crony capitalism and corruption into digestible and exciting format is a daunting task – and Åslund has certainly succeeded in that goal. With Assistance from David Pasmanik 