It’s probably safe to say that few would equate Kazakhstan (KZ) with the kind of modernity akin to something straight out of a science fiction novel. Two years ago, following their hosting of the World Fair dedicated to Future Energy in the capital Astana (renamed Nur-Sultan), Kazakhstan expanded an ambitious, pro-market reform push in a country that’s been led by the same man for 29 years. Some 52% of the country’s population have only had one leader, Nursultan Nazarbayev, in their lifetimes. That is until last weekend, when Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, a former Senate speaker and United Nations diplomat, won Kazakhstan’s June 9 election with 70.7% of the vote and turnout of about 77.4%. Some demonstrations erupted, and several hundred protesters were detained and later released. His win was no surprise. Nazarbayev openly endorsed Tokayev on April 23. Under the country’s constitution, Tokayev had been serving as Nazarbayev’s successor since he resigned March 19. For years, investors wondered what life in KZ would be like without Nazarbayev. And if his signature policies would remain intact upon his eventual exit from power. A lot is riding on Tokayev to at least carry the torch, hopefully running with it a little bit faster. One of Nazarbayev’s most visible legacies is the Astana International Financial Center (AIFC), a pro-market development project which combines KZ’s first stock market, a British law-based court, an arbitration platform, an Islamic finance center and other business services. Architecturally, it looks like KZ’s version of Disney’s Epcot Center. It is the closest thing to “going away present” from Nazarbayev to a country that’s not really seeing him go away from anything. He will have what amounts to a backstage advisory role in the new government. “Considering that the AIFC was established on his initiative, was his idea … we would like him to continue working with us,” says Kairat Kelimbetov, governor of the AIFC, the former First Deputy Prime Minister and a former central banker. Governor is an appropriate title as the entire center is built on English law. It’s like the AIFC is a city-state within the capital city. On Wednesday, June 12, Tokayev said during his inauguration ceremony that the AIFC was one of five institutional reforms announced by Nazarbayev in 2015 that will remain a foundation of his government. “The AIFC is an integral part of this,” says Kelimbetov. “Those priorities have not changed.” A lot is riding on the AIFC, honestly. It’s the magnet pulling the country towards a modern capital markets economy, one that is open to market systems. Designed for modern day market players, the sci-fi looking AIFC property houses the seven-month-old Astana International Exchange, now linked to the Shanghai Stock Exchange with trading volume still almost nonexistent. The exchange reportedly has around 200 registered companies looking to either list stocks or bonds, or at least work with the AIX itself. There are as many more in the pipeline, all going through the due diligence process from a relatively young securities regulatory body following entirely new legal structures. If AIX is to be what Nazarbayev said it would be, it’s going to take shape on Tokayev’s watch. Recently, one of China’s largest banks, the Chinese Construction Bank, set up a branch in the AIFC. Russian companies, especially oil and gas firms, are doing the same. The biggest partners in this project are all foreign, including Goldman Sachs and Nasdaq here in the U.S. Kazakhstan is the most important Central Asian nation on China’s Belt & Road investment project. Quite frankly, there is nothing remotely like the AIFC for thousands of miles. The closest thing is the Moscow Financial Center, a four-hour flight away, at a rough 1,700 miles distance. For international firms, the AIFC’s priority was always to create a “familiar environment” for investors: a regulatory environment that is similar to other international jurisdictions. Their technology platform includes a Nasdaq trading system that connects the AIX to global brokers with domestic and offshore accounts. They launched with around 18 trading members, including three foreign brokerage houses, an emerging market Europe asset manager called WOOD & Company, Beijing-based China International Capital Corp., and Hong Kong-based Shenwan Hongyuan Securities. Back in Nazarbayev’s day, he focused nearly all of his priorities on diversifying the economy away from mining and oil and gas, reforming the civil service, improving transparency and reducing corruption. Recent arrests of senior government officials and the launch of an independent anti-corruption agency by Tokayev suggest this trend will continue. Outside of education programs, social matters have been largely secondary especially in his last few years as president. Moreover, his privatization plans need to continue as this is the lifeblood of the AIFC’s future as a full-fledged financial center. Kazakhstan recently sold stakes in state run uranium miner Kazatomprom. It listed its shares on the London Stock Exchange in November at $12 a share. It’s now worth over $15 a share. Kazatomprom is the second-largest publicly traded uranium miner in the world, after Canada’s Cameco. Other companies that are supposed to be privatized include national wealth fund Samruk Kazyna, the oil and gas giant KazMunaiGas, Kazaktelecom and Air Astana airline. All of this is designed to create a bonafide capital market in Nur-Sultan, a developing city with just over 1 million inhabitants. Without those privatization plans, the AIFC will not become a capital markets hub for the region, let alone the domestic market. Consider this: The MSCI Kazakhstan Index has just two stocks in it. One is Kazatomprom. The other is Halyk Savings Bank. The Astana International Exchange is nearly all debt, with only three stocks at the moment. “The government is behind schedule on privatization, and I expect more setbacks. They have sold a bunch of small assets, but the real test for privatization is the sale of stakes in the crown jewels, the major state-owned enterprises,” says Zachary Witlin, a senior analyst with Eurasia Group in Washington specializing in Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine. The goal of Kazakhstan’s privatization is not to cede control of the enterprises to private investors, but rather to improve their performance through managerial reforms and increasing the number of private stakeholders. “That is a tall order,” says Witlin. Unlike countries in Latin America, where politicians who tout privatization plans are on something of a political suicide mission, there has not been a big public reaction to state asset sales. The new government restated that the sale of up to 25% of national blue chips like Air Astana is subject to market conditions. At least five companies are on target to be sold via an initial public offering or a secondary public offering starting next year. On the foreign policy front, Tokayev’s diplomatic background suggests he is sticking with a nonaligned approach—neither pro-Beijing nor pro-Moscow nor pro-Washington/Brussels. He is fluent in Russian, Chinese, English and Arabic. According to the World Bank’s Doing Business 2019, the country is easier for businesses than Russia and is more politically free than China. Kazakhstan has faced a growing number of challenges in recent years. Much of Nazarbayev’s legitimacy was performance-based, tied to rising living standards, stability and economic growth spurred by the early-2000s commodity super-cycle. Any major shifts in economic policy are thus more likely to be influenced by oil prices, changes in petroleum production and evolving external conditions. Tokayev is no stranger to national political woes. But it seems as if Nazarbayev, now reverently referred to as First President and Leader of the Nation, is there on hand in what amounts to an “in case of emergency, break glass” permanent fixture on KZ’s politics, a one-man fire department. “Nazarbayev will continue to exert significant leverage over the policy direction of the country and Tokayev’s victory will further ensure a continuation of the status quo,” says Nihad Ahmed, an economist with Focus Economics. Toyakev and Nazarbayev have yet to explain how they will split the workload. Nazarbayev’s signature policy, the “100 Steps Plan” aiming to place Kazakhstan within the world’s top 30 developed countries by 2050, is still intact, but Tokayev will have to pay attention to discontent down-market as a rising tide has not lifted as many boats as Nazarbayev hoped, Hill & Knowlton analysts wrote in a report on May 17. Rallies across the country in February of this year in response to substandard living conditions among the urban poor and some demonstrations on the election day represent warning signs that Kazakhstan’s leadership appears to be heeding. Moreover, Nazarbayev has been criticized by some for concentrating too much of his final efforts on the capital and not enough on the outer provinces, provinces that remain poor and isolated from Nur-Sultan and Almaty, the two economic hubs. In response to this criticism the government prioritized the southern city of Shymkent as a third developmental hub. Nazarbayev has overseen a relatively peaceful transition from Soviet Union republic used chiefly as a gulag wasteland, and a Soviet military nuclear testing ground, to the most stable economy in the ex-Soviet ’Stans. Nazarbayev’s exit resembles the semi-departure of Singapore’s founding father Lee Kuan Yew. Singapore has always been a major inspiration for Nazarbayev, who held Lee in the highest regard, writes Nargis Kassenova, a senior fellow at Harvard University’s Davis Center for Russian & Eurasian Studies. Lee tops the short list of leaders who “made authoritarianism look good,” she wrote back in March, days after Nazarbayev announced his move to becoming the man behind the curtain. Tokayev inherits a country Nazarbayev invented amid the throes of the dying Soviet Union, taking it to nation building. Tokayev has a much more forbidable foundation than the one Nazarbayev was left to build upon. Some of those changes could be seen in the June election. This year’s election saw the first female candidate in any Central Asian presidential election. Daniya Espaeva of the pro-business Ak-Zhol party. The second place finisher for the presidency, pro-market reformer and activist Amirzhan Kossanov, received 16% of the votes. Hundreds of foreign representatives, most of them from European countries, worked election day as third-party observers. Media were allowed to talk with voters, though violence marred the election in the capital and saw the detention of a handful of journalists. “Despite all the outstanding questions, Kazakhstan’s leaders have taken a far-sighted step forward, and their initiative to manage change should be welcomed,” says J. Adam Ereli, a former U.S. Ambassador and Deputy State Department Spokesman Under George W. Bush. “The alternative—becoming a casualty rather than a driver of history—is much less appealing.”