It was a common complaint among expatriates in the 2000s: why does everything in Moscow cost so much? The news that Moscow has now fallen out of the World's Top 100 most expensive cities will cause a corresponding jaw-drop among international business people who lived in the Russian capital then. A survey for ECA International put Moscow down 66 places from 54th. In 2006 and 2007, similar surveys named the Russian capital as the world's most expensive city. The booming Russian economy meant that rents were soaring skywards, taking with them the costs of services. That was before you got to groceries. Good, home-grown, seasonal, fresh, produce could be found year-round in the Russian capital—if you had the capital to pay for it. Move into the market for imported foodstuffs, though, and you had to think about moving into another income bracket, too.    One of this writer's particular favorites—at least, in the sense that it was unforgettable—was the jar of French mustard. Sure, it must have been good. It should have been. It cost the equivalent of almost $50. No need to ask the price Prices like these did not seem to bother those Russian consumers who were benefiting from the boom. In the Russian language, the same verb is usually used to convey the meanings of both "to cost" and "to be worth." On Moscow's pricier streets, people did not feel the need to make the distinction, anyway. They had the cash. They handed it over. This even became the source of a strange kind of pride. In many societies, wealth is admired and respected. In Russia then, the ability to acquire and consume luxury goods also became something to be flaunted. There was even a "Millionaire Fair" at which such items as diamond-encrusted cell phones and gold pacifiers for the billionaire baby were offered for sale. A drop in living standards seems to have brought those heady days to an end. Yes, there are still plenty of rich Russians: 98 billionaires according to the latest Forbes count. Hit by sanctions and falling oil prices TASS offered a matter-of-fact report on the news that Moscow had fallen so far from its place at the pinnacle of expensive places to live. Steven Kilfedder, production manager ECA International, highlighted, "Lower oil prices and economic sanctions in Russia" as being behind the lower ranking. In Russia's resource-rich economy, oil prices are indeed an important factor. You could almost trace Russia's recent history by tracking the oil price. When Moscow was the most expensive place to live, crude prices were heading towards the all-time high of $147, which was reached in July 2008.  The sanctions against Russia have made it a much less attractive business destination. Fewer expatriates means less demand for the goods and services they require. Until the political relationship between Russia and the West improves, that is unlikely to change. Sanctions work the other way, too. In 2014, in retaliation for western sanctions, Russia imposed sanctions on food imports from the European Union. In 2018, these were extended until the end of 2019. So even if today's expatriates can afford expensive imported goods, they may not be able to find them in the supermarkets.   