Oil production from the US shale sector continues to accelerate at a record pace, but a host of threats lurking beneath the surface could put the brakes on the industry’s growth this year. Despite investor demand for capital discipline and higher returns, the shale sector’s financial performance has been spotty – a problem made worse by falling prices. A barrel of US benchmark West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude ended Wednesday at $51.24 a barrel, down nearly 20% from its late April high. The market is officially in bear territory despite some very bullish indicators. The flood of shale oil and gas is partly to blame for lower prices – producers are pumping out a record 12 million barrels a day and could hit 13 million barrels a day by the end of the year, according to the Department of Energy. The Permian Basin of West Texas and Southeast New Mexico is putting out 4 million barrels a day on its own. The bigger culprit, though, is not rising production – the industry is projected to meet its 16% growth target despite the low-price environment – but rising uncertainty about future demand. Ongoing trade disputes and regional clashes are making for skittish traders worried about a potential global economic slowdown that could undercut demand for oil and gas. The world’s top two economies can go at each other for only so long before the effects trickle down to the consumer. The one thing supporting oil prices right now is OPEC and Russia's willingness to continue to cut their own production to support higher prices. Should they reverse course, the bottom could fall out of the market and prices could sink as low as $40 a barrel. For now, the market is operating as if the OPEC and Russian cuts will continue through the end of the year. There is a low risk of the market being oversupplied as long as OPEC is willing to trade market share for moderately higher prices. US producers will take that deal every time and keep producing. The caveat is that profitability for shale is falling, too. Shale producers will have to tighten their belts if prices fall under $50 a barrel. Another uncertainty facing the industry is environmental regulations, specifically regulation of methane emissions. Shale producers are flaring or venting natural gas at a record pace in some basins – burning off associated gas at the wellhead to reach more valuable crude. The lack of pipelines to get all that gas to market is the reason producers burned or vented 661 million cubic feet per day in the Permian in the first quarter, according to Rystad Energy. Together, the Bakken and Permian flare or vent about 1.1 billion cubic feet of gas a day – roughly equal to the gas demand of Israel. Producers in the Permian often generate so much associated gas that they either give it away or, worse, pay someone to take it. The sector’s associated-gas problem has attracted the unwanted attention of environmentalists because of the upswing in methane emissions. President Trump eased Obama-era rules on methane emissions, issued executive orders to speed infrastructure permitting and rein in state attempts to block pipelines and other energy projects. But with Democrats committed to making climate change a major theme in the presidential campaign, flaring and methane emissions could become shale’s Achilles’ heel. In traditional oil-producing states – Texas, Louisiana and Oklahoma, for example – this is less of a problem. A number of new oil pipelines are expected to come online in the West Texas Permian after 2021 to ease bottlenecks and firm up price differentials with international markets. But that’s two years away and production continues to rise. Construction of pipelines for natural gas are even less certain. Permian gas production currently is about 10 billion cubic feet per day, for which there is already insufficient takeaway capacity. But a number of shale projects are in the works that could add 4.3 million barrels a day of Permian oil production before 2021. RBN Energy estimates these same projects will more than double the region’s gas output to 23 billion cubic feet a day. At the same time, only one new pipeline, the Gulf Coast Express with a capacity of 2 billion cubic feet a day, is slated to come online in the Permian this fall. Another half dozen pipelines are proposed, but only two look certain to be built. The gas market will look more favorable to pipeline companies when the second wave of LNG projects advance, providing greater market access for exports. In the meantime, the venting and flaring will continue. Producers are taking voluntary steps to address their stranded gas. EOG Resources is pumping associated gas back into oil wells to boost recovery. It’s an example other companies would be wise to follow to head off environmental concerns about methane emissions. Devon Energy this week announced plans to reduce methane emissions companywide to demonstrate its commitment to the environment. Capital efficiency is another area where the shale sector needs to improve. A report by Rystad Energy found that only 10% of shale oil companies had positive cash flow in the first quarter. Capital expenditures in the sector continue to exceed cash flow. The shale sector is mature enough now to have weaned itself off its dependency on outside capital. Investors are losing patience. And despite delivering consistent growth, shale producers are being dinged for failing on other metrics, including debt reduction, dividends and stock buybacks. Comparing the shale sector’s red paint bonanza with the S&P 500’s nearly 50% gain over the same period is downright depressing. Heightened consolidation in the shale sector should help as stronger players gobble up weaker companies. But the dismal first-quarter performance suggests a far more significant shakeout is needed. Companies can kick the can only so far down the road with debt restructuring and extended maturities before they need to demonstrate an ability to generate cash and growth without borrowing. The US Energy Information Administration this week revised its 2019 forecast for US oil production lower by 100,000 barrels a day. Similar downgrades could become regular occurrences if the industry doesn’t address operational, financial and pricing challenges. The sector no longer has youth as an excuse. The shale boom propelled the United States to the world’s top producer spot. It’s now time to reward the investors who made all those producing wells possible.