Investors holding a portfolio of the largest tech names were getting quite worried last Monday afternoon. An hour before the close, the FANG stocks were down $130 billion, led by a 7.8% drop in Facebook (FB) and a 6.5% decline in Alphabet Inc Class A (GOOGL). Some indicators reflected investor caution, but not fear. The Total Put/Call Ratio had reached overly bearish levels the previous week, while individual investors, according to the American Association of Individual Investors (AAII) survey, were just 24.79% were bullish. That is a low, but not extreme, reading, as AAII's Bullish-% dropped to 20.9% on December 13. Those who were already worried about the Mexico tariffs were not happy to learn that some of the big companies were also receiving increased government scrutiny. Still, there did not seem to be any widespread market panic. Given the timing, it seems as though the Fed was more worried about trade. Before the open on Tuesday, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell surprised many by telling investors “We are closely monitoring the implications of these developments for the U.S. economic outlook and, as always, we will act as appropriate to sustain the expansion.” The S&P 500 gapped 18 points higher on Tuesday’s open, and by Friday had closed 129 points above Monday’s close. The S&P was one of the best performers, up 4.41%, while the Dow Industrials were up 4.71%. The four most oversold Dow stocks were led by Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and Verizon (VZ), both up well over 5% for the week. All of the above averages (plus NYSE Composite) are again showing solid double-digit gains YTD, led by the Nasdaq 100 which is up 17.2%. Even the beaten-down Dow Transportation Average was up 4.13% for the week and is now up 10.6% YTD. After the market close Friday, a new Tweet revealed that the “Tariffs scheduled to be implemented by the U.S. on Monday, against Mexico, are hereby indefinitely suspended.” This is the result that some of the more optimistic investors may have expected early last week. Of course, the alternative is that they did not believe the threat in the first place. Clearly, that is the one of the problems with the current environment. It's not that Trump doesn't mean what he says. It's dangerous to simply not believe his threats. But his proposals and pronouncements so often end up going awry, like the Korean Peace Talks, or dissipate suddenly like the Mexican tariffs. Investors have started to take this uncertainty for granted, and not react to statements from the President that, at another time, would be cause for quite panic. Chairman Powell’s commitment to come to the rescue dovetails with widespread news that Republican Senators were lining up against the tariffs. This, I am confident, forced the US side to accept weaker terms by the end of the week. Over the weekend, reports came out showing that some of the trade deal with Mexico may have been worked out months in advance anyway. Real economists (not just pundits) seemed to agree that the tariffs on Mexico would have caused serious deterioration in the US economy. Very few talk about what the whole process had done to the economic confidence of businesses or investors. Everyone hopes that we will not see more economic threats. This is part of the problem I find with the “hopium market”. A hopium market is a market that is guided by the addiction to false hopes. While last week’s buyers now seem confident that the Fed will come to the rescue if the economy weakens, most believe that the economic numbers will have to get considerably weaker before they act. If that is the case, then the next earnings season will need to justify the current stock prices. For some companies that may be hoping for too much. The strong market gains were accompanied by a sharp improvement in the technical outlook. As I pointed out last week, the weekly S&P 500 A/D line had dropped below its WMA for the first time since January 11. However, because the A/D line made a new all-time high with prices five weeks ago, I suggested that the then-current decline should present a good buying opportunity. The turnaround came faster that I expected. The low in the Spyder Trust (SPY) last week was $273.09, which was well above the Quarterly Pivot at $270.44. After four positive days, the SPY closed at 287.65, well above its daily starc+ band on Friday, which means it is now in a high-risk buy area. The next resistance is in the 289-$290 area (line a), and then the weekly high at $293.31. The 20-day EMA has turned up and is now at $283.24, while the 20-week EMA is flat and at $281.28, about the mid-point of last week’s range. The daily advance/decline indicators have also turned around signalling that the correction was over. The daily NYSE All A/D Line, which measures the action of all the issues in the NYSE average, moved above its WMA on Tuesday. It overcame its downtrend (line a) on Friday. Its WMA is now trying to turn higher. The NYSE Stocks-Only A/D line has been weaker since early May. It finally moved above its WMA on Friday and surpassed its downtrend (line b). The WMA has flattened out and is not yet trending higher. The NYSE has next resistance in the 13,000 area, with the 20-day EMA at 12,607. For the week, the Materials Sector (XLB) was the standout, up just over 9%. The strong performance of the gold stocks definitely helped XLB. The Technology Sector (XLK), Consumer Staples Select (XLP) and Industrial Sector (XLI) were all up over 5% last week. Most of these ETF's are now overbought on a short-term basis, but there are a number of individual stocks with better risk/reward profiles that I am monitoring. Interest rates made further new lows last week as the yield on the 10-Year T-Note had a low of 2.053%. This was just above the September low of 2.034%. The last MACD weekly sell signal came on November 30 (line a), when yields closed 3.013%. Four weeks ago, the MACD analysis tried to stabilize before it turned sharply lower again. The Fed Fund futures now point to at least two rate cuts this year but the intermediate term ramification of such a drop in rates is not clear. Crude oil did rebound late in the week with the stock market, and closed the week higher. Still, the daily indicators, including the On Balance Volume (OBV) and Herrick Payoff Index (HPI), are still negative. Those of my readers who followed the four-week dollar-cost averaging plan I recommended before Christmas are still 75% long at an average value of 2497 based on the S&P 500. On February 25, 2019, my order to sell 25% of the position was executed when the S&P 500 moved above 2805. As a stop on the position, I would sell the remaining position if the S&P 500 has a weekly close below 2712, which is the current Quarterly Pivot. In the Viper ETF Report and Viper Hot Stocks Report, I teach subscribers how to interpret the intricacies of the stock market while providing specific buy and sell advice twice a week. Each service is only $34.95 per month.