Last week’s attack on two oil tankers in the Gulf of Oman -- which the U.S. has controversially attributed to Iran’s Revolutionary Guards -- follows several months of elevated tensions between the U.S. and Iran, as well as Saudi Arabia and other regional players. Related incidents have jolted oil markets and focused attention on the possibility that ongoing tensions will put upward pressure on oil prices. GeoQuant data suggests this is not the case. Although we did predict that political risks to oil production would increase after previous incidents on 13-14 May, our data still indicates that these risks will likely subside through year-end. To wit, the figure below displays our forecast of supply-side Oil Price Risk (“oil price risk: production” in the GeoQuant app), with recent developments in bilateral U.S.-Iran tensions denoted by the numbered points. The indicator is a cross-country aggregate of political risks in major oil-producing countries, and has historically been positively correlated with oil prices. While recent events have driven our supply-side measure of oil price risk upwards, we forecast declining risk beyond today’s date and through 2H/2019, suggesting that the recent slide in oil prices (downward-trending over roughly the past month) will continue. We observe similar dynamics in our Composite Oil Price Risk indicator ("oil price risk" on the app), which is constructed in a similar fashion to the above indicator but takes into account both supply and demand dynamics; the indicator has similarly been positively correlated with oil prices on a historical basis. Several key political events relevant for demand-side dynamics are highlighted in the figure below, including (1) a relative period of optimism on the U.S.-China trade front -- coinciding with rising composite Oil Price Risk whereby a resolution of the dispute would sustain Chinese demand for oil -- as well as (2) the expiration of U.S. oil waivers that allowed China, India, Turkey and others to continue importing oil from Iran. Oil Price Risk again trended upwards following the waivers’ expiration on account of those countries’ (and others’) substitution into non-sanctioned oil supplies. Heading into 2H/2019, we expect the recent aggravation of the U.S.-China dispute (3) to exert countervailing pressure as the impact of the waivers’ expiration subsides, as forecast by downward-trending composite Risk heading deeper into Q3/2019 and throughout 2H/2019. On net, our composite measure of Oil Price Risk has remained tightly correlated (r = +.6523) with brent crude prices over 2019/YTD, suggesting this joint measure of oil market dynamics is the one to watch, despite a recent dip into negative correlation territory on a rolling basis. To help unpack some of the underlying drivers of composite Oil Price Risk in the context of recent geopolitical development, below we layer on both Saudi and Iran Geopolitical Risk indicators and pull back to a longer term view. Unsurprisingly, both Saudi and Iranian Geopolitical Risk are supply-side drivers of oil risk, while the Iranian indicator also helps capture the consumption effect of U.S. oil sanctions waivers (or lack thereof) for the likes of China, India, and Japan. Note that while Iranian Geopolitical Risk remains near historic highs, we forecast a marked decline over the coming months, suggesting that tensions will not metastasize into more serious confrontation, in turn sustaining downward-pressure on oil prices as concerns surrounding access to Gulf supplies decline. See much more on the app. GeoQuant forecast a soft (managed) Brexit more than two years ago and maintains that call, despite a Conservative Party leadership race that threatens to place a hard Brexit advocate atop the party and as Prime Minister. Despite repeated and often hyperbolic noise about “constitutional crises” in the UK, low Institutional Stability Risk has been the primary driver of our prediction, supported by the UK’s long history of parliamentary sovereignty and the fact that a hard Brexit still does not have majority support in the Conservative Party, much less parliament as a whole. The result has been a Brexit stalemate in the party -- one that, ironically, will now probably take a hard Brexit advocate to break. It goes without saying that Brexit has destabilized UK politics: note that Institutional Support Risk -- which measures the incumbent government’s support from/control over other political, legal and administrative institutions -- has been increasing (and remained very high, relative to other countries) for over a year. This risk has reflected weak support for PM May in the governing party, along with similarly-Brexit driven divisions among the opposition Labor party. So while the institutions which underpin the UK’s traditional two-party system -- i.e. a first-past-the-post parliamentary system-- have not changed, the Tory and Labor parties’ ability to function within that system has weakened considerably due to intra-party divisions. Hence the UK’s current impasse, reflected clearly in this month’s EU elections and the failure of May’s government. And, in turn, the current Tory preference for a more “decisive” (even if shambolic) Brexiteer like Boris Johnson. And yet, per our Institutional Stability Risk indicator above, the risk that a new prime minister will force a hard Brexit still faces substantial parliamentary hurdles. Parliament has already demonstrated that it has the capacity to legislate without the support of government, which it did earlier in the Brexit process by forcing the extension of an earlier Article 50 deadline. Of course, parliament can also pass a vote of confidence against any new government and force a snap election as well. In short, while the risk of a no-deal Brexit has risen as the Conservative Party has been unable to forge an intra-party compromise, the ability of a hard Brexit PM to force a no-deal outcome is limited as long as sovereignty remains with the House of Commons. As a result, handing executive power to a hard Brexiter PM may be the best tactic to force like minded Tories to strike a compromise with their soft Brexit co-partisans. The form of any resulting compromise on Brexit is likely to look very much like PM May’s proposal, with as yet unclear modifications to the Irish backstop, to justify the antagonistic role hard Brexit supporters have played. This will prove difficult as any changes to the agreement will have to be ratified by all EU members. As a result, a new government may sidestep that hurdle by exaggerating the importance of small changes that can get EU member support. Amid persistent political pressure from President Trump to cut rates, our most relevant political risk indicators show mixed signals heading into Wednesday's Fed policy meeting. In a good sign for Fed independence, U.S. Institutional Stability Risk - which has most closely tracked the interaction between Trump's political attacks on the Fed and resulting policy decisions - is heading down into 19 June, per below. But at the same time, politically-driven Sovereign Risk for the U.S. is anticipated to increase significantly late this month, suggesting greater political influence on monetary policy.