With trade wars front and center – and the S&P 500 falling 5% off its recent high – many investors are questioning what the impacts will be on the global economy and financial markets. As trade tensions increase, global economic growth expectations often fall. Aggregate demand slows, and in turn, investors anticipate less demand for raw materials. This led prices of some commodities to recently tumble: copper, lumber, chemicals, steel and even crude oil. Yet the economic impacts of higher tariffs have been fairly muted, a sub-1% drag to GDP. In this fluid situation, our view is the most recently announced tariffs do not represent the endgame. The latest addition to the trade war saga is Mexico. President Donald J. Trump wants three concessions: better immigration enforcement on the Guatemala/Mexico border; increased targeting of human smuggling rings; and requiring Central Americans to file for asylum in Mexico rather than in the U.S. These demands are modest compared to the economic cost of tariffs. Mexico’s exports of goods to the U.S. account for a massive 29% of their GDP. This is a much larger percentage than exports to the U.S. represent to Chinese GDP, suggesting a strong incentive for quick resolution. Total costs from tariffs have two components: the direct hit to GDP; and their effect on business and consumer confidence. While the actual tariffs implemented so far will shave less than 1% from GDP, the impact from lower business and consumer spending is more difficult to quantify. As business confidence deteriorates, the marginal employee may not get hired; capital spending (business expansion) may be put on hold. Reduced business confidence and spending were key drivers of the 2001 recession. Data from previous rounds of tariffs suggests that U.S. consumers – not Chinese manufacturers and suppliers – bore the brunt of price increases. According to the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the most recent round of tariffs (with additional 15% tariffs on $200 billion) could cost the typical American household $831 annually. While this might seem manageable, the next $300 billion tranche of tariffs may lead to an even greater hit as they are applied to more consumer products. When consumers feel the pinch, their confidence and spending usually suffer. This could drive GDP back down to its 2-2.5% trend. Many assume that tariffs will immediately rise to the 25% rate, but that does not have to be. The Trump Administration may announce an extended schedule, with tariffs taking effect over several years. China would still feel the pain as companies relocate supply chains. U.S. consumers may feel less near-term pain, however. Jeffrey Schulze is an Investment Strategist at ClearBridge Investments, a subsidiary of Legg Mason. His opinions are not are not intended to be relied upon as a prediction or forecast of actual future events or performance, or a guarantee of future results, or investment advice. All investments involve risk, including loss of principal. © 2019 Legg Mason Investor Services, LLC. Member FINRA, SIPC. Legg Mason Investor Services, LLC and ClearBridge Investments are subsidiaries of Legg Mason, Inc."