Energy stocks have performed poorly over the past several years and long-term prospects for the industry are unclear. However, many energy pipeline companies — also known as midstream companies — are gushing cash with yields as high as 8%. These companies are worth a careful look for income oriented investors. So called, midstream companies process, transport, and store oil and gas. What is important to pipelines is not the price of oil or gas, but volumes. While shares of many midstream companies underperformed last year, several reported record cash flow and are expected to have record cash flow again in 2019. Midstream companies’ finances are strengthening and their ability to cover their dividend payments is improving. Meanwhile, valuations are attractive and should appeal to income-oriented investors. The sector’s average yield is above 6%, versus 2% for the S&P 500 and 4% for REITs. Midstream companies appear undervalued and have better dividend coverage than the broader market or REITs, and are less leveraged than utilities and REITs. The outlook for the shares? Declines in oil prices are a headwind for volumes and a challenge to midstream companies. However, oil prices are cyclical, and ultimately, it’s not a renewable resource. Long term, volumes are likely to rise and with it comes demand from producers to move oil from drilling sites to processing plants and then to power plants, chemical manufacturing factories or export terminals. Given these trends here are some midstream companies I like. Enterprise Products Partners has been utilizing its large — more than 49,000 miles of pipeline — size to meet oil producers’ need to process and deliver oil and gas. A few years ago, Enterprise decided to trim its dividend hikes so that it could allocate more of its cash flow to business expansion. While the decision was uncommon, investors are probably not too upset. Enterprise has raised its dividends for 20 straight years and the shares yield about 6% at current prices. Analysts at CFRA like Enterprise Products Partners for its combination of growth investments and dividend payments and think it is less likely to require external financing as cash flow improves. The resource rich Permian Basin in west Texas faced bottlenecks last year due to transportation constraints there. But after Plains All American Pipeline completed its Sunrise pipeline expansion in November, the bottlenecks has eased. But record-breaking production in the Permian, the largest U.S. oil field, continues to exceed pipeline takeaway capacity, providing a strong baseline for revenues and future opportunities for Plains. At current prices, the Plains shares yield more than 6%. Analysts at Morningstar note Plain’s asset quality, particularly its emphasis on operations in the Permian Basin in Texas, where the company’s prospects appear most promising. Kinder Morgan spent several years engaged in financial engineering that included going private, then public again, then consolidating subsidiaries, and a dividend cut, among other items. Since 2015, Kinder Morgan has been de-levering its balance sheet, and now with a debt to capitalization ratio of ~ 47% is below peers according to CFRA equity research. Kinder saw an uptick in its profitability in 2018, and with its finances on firmer footing, the company is positioned for continued growth in profitability. The shares currently yield ~ 5%, more than twice the average yield on the S&P 500. Analysts at CFRA laud Kinder Morgan for its ability to fund its growth and pay a dividend without external financing sources. Energy Transfer had a strong 2018. The pipeline company reported record fourth-quarter results in which both earnings and cash flow rose about 30%. Moreover, with a large number of projects under construction, Energy Transfer expects to report another year of double digit earnings growth. At current prices, the share yields a whopping 8.9%. Analysts at Morningstar expect Energy Transfer’s cash flow from the Bakken formation, located in Montana and South Dakota, as well as parts of Canada, and elsewhere to be used to reduce debt and hike dividends. 