The National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), a private sector company, is the entity responsible for officially labeling recession start and end dates. As a rule of thumb, the financial markets use two consecutive quarters of negative GDP growth as the marker. But, that is not the way the NBER sees it. According to their website, the NBER defines a recession as: Item (1), personal income (excluding transfers), appears to have peaked in December; Item (2) employment, at least according to the Household Survey, has fallen so far this year (-187k), and aggregate hours worked also looks to have put in a top. In addition the Establishment Survey (headline jobs number) disappointed in February and May. Item (3), Industrial Production, has been falling all year. And wholesale and retail sales (4) have been toppy, especially big-ticket items like autos and appliances. April and May did see a rebound in U.S. consumption although year/year growth is still anemic (1.4%). Because the “significant decline in economic activity” must last “more than a few months,” and the peaks noted above appear to have been recent, it is likely that, if, indeed a business recession did start in Q2, it will be quite some time before the NBER stamps it. It took them a year (December ’08) to officially mark the start of the last recession (December ’07). The Current Situation Sentiment The latest Investors’ Intelligence Poll shows the following: It is clear that the equity markets expect a “soft landing” and for the expansion to continue. Business leaders, on the other hand, appear to have a different view as data from the Business Roundtable Survey indicates that business confidence is at the lowest level since late 2016. Duke University’s survey of CFOs indicate that 69% believe that a recession will start by 2020, while the National Association of Business Economists’ survey pegs the odds of a recession in 2020 at 60%. The equity markets clearly believe that the Fed will soon lower its administered short-term Fed Funds rate, and that will be enough to engineer a soft-landing, avoid a recession, and set the economy up for a continuation of the expansion. As I have indicated many times in the past, the Fed’s track record in this regard is dismal. The Data- the Good News The Data – the Other News Conclusions The NBER is not going to opine as to whether or not a recession is already in progress or is about to start until it is sure that the peaks in the data we have seen recently are, indeed, cycle peaks. This may take up to a year. The data however continue to decelerate (China) or have been in outright decline. Consumer sentiment fell slightly in June, but is still positive (due, in part, to high flying equity markets), but key business sentiment indexes have now rolled over. Weakness is appearing in the business sector (Corporate and CFO sentiment indexes, falling Industrial Production, falling capex, stagnant housing). The U.S. consumer appears okay, for now. Other industrial countries, however, appear to have already entered recessions, including China and Europe. The stock market continues to hover near peaks based on the hope that the Fed can engineer a soft landing, and that a trade deal with China will reverse all the key data series. Generally speaking, hope is not a good investment strategy.