The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) postponed its regular ministers' meeting, aimed at monitoring and enforcing the 14-member group's crude oil production levels, yet again on Wednesday (June 19, 2019), a matter of days before it was scheduled to be held on June 25-26. The June meeting itself had been originally rescheduled from April, but internal acrimony and tensions in the Middle East have now seen it pushed forward to July 1-2. Inkling of the unprecedented chaos had been coming after OPEC heavyweight Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister Khalid Al-Falih expressed reservations about its timing last month. In near tandem, Russian Oil Minister Alexander Novak, de facto leader of the group of 10 non-OPEC producers who have been coordinating with OPEC on a joint 1.2 million barrels per day (bpd) output cut, also expressed his wish for a postponement.    In April, OPEC said the first postponement had been down to a desire for more market data before OPEC and non-OPEC ministers met. However, this time around tension spilled out into the open in the wake of attacks on oil tankers in the Persian Gulf. While regional powers blamed "unnamed state actors" following an investigation by the United Arab Emirates of the first attack, the U.S. government pinned the blame on Iran. Tehran strongly denied the allegation. It saw Iranian oil minister Bijan Zangeneh quip there were no "valid reasons" for postponing the meeting; and subsequently telling the Russians and OPEC he was "not available" for mid-July dates they had proposed. In the resulting farce, OPEC has ended up with a token postponement of a week, again citing the need for "more data." Stark reality is that joint cuts of 1.2 million bpd are not having the desired price effect. Despite two geopolitical price upticks following separate tanker attacks in May and June, oil benchmarks are down by over 20% since the end of April on demand concerns. U.S.-China trade war, Germany's economic slowdown and Brexit chaos are seen weighing on demand sentiment. Additionally, U.S. crude oil production continues to rise. According to the Energy Information Administration (EIA), U.S. production rose 97,000 bpd to a record high of 12.3 million bpd for the week ending 24 May, and is projected by some to hit 13.4 million bpd by the end of 2019. It has thrown added complexity into the market mix for OPEC, with Brent futures often struggling to hold a price floor above $60 per barrel, and OPEC's stated aim of global inventory re-balancing appearing under a cloud. On paper, OECD's inventories averaged 3.051 billion barrels in 2016 when OPEC and ten non-OPEC members came together to introduce joint production cuts. Inventories subsequently averaged 2.991 billion in 2017 and 2.839 billion barrels in 2018 following the cuts, but stockpiles are rising again. The EIA projects the rise to average 2.936 billion barrels in 2019, based on an uptick in U.S. production. That is still ~25 million above the level OPEC wants it to be at. As two-thirds of the published OPEC+ cuts of 1.2 million bpd cuts fall on 11 OPEC members (excluding Iran, Libya and Venezuela who are exempt), and Russia wanting an end to the cuts, haggling over individual production quotas – which have not been published for over a decade – has always been the norm. Now it seems, the same level of acrimony applies when it comes to setting meeting dates. 