On June 18, 2019, WPX Energy, Inc. (NYSE: WPX, $11.39, Market Capitalization: $4.8 billion) COO Clay Gasper at JP Morgan Energy conference on June 18 hinted that the company is exploring options for its midstream Permian Water business. The Company indicated that it is in preliminary stages and all options including an outright sale, JV or a carve-out are on the table. The company, however, has not given any timeline as to when the company will pursue this transaction. WPX’s Water business includes the Stateline Gas & Water Gathering, which is 100% owned by the company. It is estimated to have a capacity of ~200 Mb/d of water disposal, and its estimated total value is in the range of $500-600 million. On May 1, 2019, WPX Energy, Inc. reported 1Q19 results. Total product revenues of $507 million in 1Q19 were $100 million higher (up 25% YoY). Net revenues were $359 million, down 4% YoY, as compared to the prior year period due to net loss from derivatives. The company reported an operating loss of $149 million, due to higher costs. Net loss for the period was $119 million. Deal Rationale WPX Energy has invested in building out its in-basin midstream infrastructure with crude gathering, gas processing, and water handling infrastructure that helps improve well economics. The company believes these midstream assets provide a competitive advantage and reduce reliance on third parties for takeaway capacity. The E&P industry has recently undergone a technological shift as unconventional drilling has become more prevalent. Since unconventional drilling and fracturing are recent developments, uncertainty concerning the regulation of these practices presents an investment risk. Environmental concerns relating to wastewater disposal and drilling regulations on the state and federal level also present risks that may reduce the value of a company’s proven or potential reserves. Furthermore, the midstream water business requires considerable investments and is complicated. WPX holds 100% stake in State Line gas gathering, and water disposal system, WXP’s water business, and the estimated total value of State Line is about ~$500-600 million ($1/share). WPX’s peers, in relation to the water business, have considered options such as Joint ventures, sale, and carve-out. WPX also has started to explore options similar to its peers. One of the viable options for the company is to go for a carve-out, which is already explored by a few oil and gas wastewater specialist companies operating at the Permian Basin. The carve-out is a better option, as water management infrastructure in E&P (Exploration & Production) business is critical, and by doing a carve out the company will be able to maintain control over its assets by maintaining a stake in the new company. Company Description WPX Energy (Parent) WPX Energy Inc (WPX) is an independent oil and gas company and carries out drilling and exploration of oil and gas fields in the US. The company produces natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil from non-conventional resources including tight-sands, shale formations, and coal-bed methane reserves. The company conducts drilling and exploration operations in Williston Basin in North Dakota and Permian Basin in Texas. It develops oil wells in Bakken Shale and Three Forks formation. WPX Energy is headquartered in Tulsa, Oklahoma, the US. In FY18, the company recorded revenues of $2.3 billion. WPX operates through two oil fields, namely, Permain Basin and Williston Basin. Permian Basin is in Delaware. It operates through RKI Exploration & Production, LLC (RKI), a wholly owned subsidiary of the company. WPX holds approximately 130,000 net acres in the Delaware Basin, with core operations in Lea, Eddy and Chaves Counties in New Mexico, and Pecos, Reeves, Loving, Ward and Winkler Counties in Texas, the US. Approximately 79% of the leasehold land is held for production. The company also operates 657 wells in the Delaware Basin and holds interests in 808 wells operated by others. In FY18, the company operated an average of 6.6 drilling rigs in the Delaware Basin and recorded a net production of 78.2 thousand barrels of oil equivalent (Mboe) per day. As of December 2018, it completed drilling of 128 gross (87 net) wells and has another 30 gross operated wells awaiting completion. The company also operates midstream and operational infrastructure, including low and high-pressure gathering lines, fresh water supply systems, electrical power supply systems, compression systems, and saltwater disposal systems at the Delaware Basin to support its drilling activities in Permian Basin. The water business includes the State Line gas gathering and water disposal system that is 100% owned by the company. Williston Basin is in the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation in North Dakota, the US. The company holds approximately 85,087 net acres at its Williston Basin. It also operates 323 wells and holds interest in 87 wells operated by others. In Williston Basin, the company primarily focuses on developing oil reserves through horizontal drilling in the Upper Three Forks oil formation and Middle Bakken. In FY2018, the company operated at an average 2.8 rigs at the Williston Basin properties and recorded a net production of 48.9 Mboe per day of net production. As of December 2018, WPX completed drilling of 60 gross (52 net) wells, and we have another 15 gross operated wells awaiting completion next wells. Permian Water Business (Carve-Out) WPX has midstream and operational infrastructure in the Permian Basin to support drilling activities and keep pace with production growth. The company has investments in low and high pressure gathering lines, compression systems, electrical power supply systems, fresh water supply systems, and saltwater disposal systems, which and includes a large water business. The Water business includes the Stateline Gas & Water Gathering, which is 100% owned by the company. It is estimated to have a capacity of ~200 Mb/d of water disposal, and its estimated total value is in the range of $500-600 million. 