The Executive Board of Norway’s Central Bank (Norges Bank) has revoked the ban on their sovereign wealth fund investing in several major companies including Walmart Inc., miner Rio Tinto and Carlos Slim’s Grupo Carso. The decision follows recommendations from the Council on Ethics. The fund’s ethical mandate is set by the Norwegian parliament and ensures one of the world’s largest investors cannot invest in companies that produce nuclear weapons, tobacco, or cause major environmental damage, among other criteria. The Council on Ethics makes recommendations on ethical exclusions and also regularly assesses whether existing bans should be lifted based on changes in circumstances.    Recently the Norwegian Parliament rubber-stamped proposals to move investments away from companies focused on coal production and oil exploration. Companies clear ethical objections In a statement, the Executive Board confirmed the decision to revoke the exclusions of Grupo Carso SAB de CV, General Dynamics Corp, Nutrien Ltd, Rio Tinto Ltd, Rio Tinto Plc, Walmart Inc and Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB de CV from the Government Pension Fund Global. Both Walmart and Walmart Mexico were excluded in 2006, a ruling greeted with much surprise in the U.S. The decision was based on an assessment of serious violations of human rights. Rio Tinto was excluded 11 years ago due to the potential for environmental damage caused by their Grasberg mine in Indonesia. Norwegian authorities claimed the mine discharged large amounts of waste directly into a natural river system. The Council of Ethics states that they have “found that the grounds for exclusion are no longer present” for Walmart, while Rio Tinto has signed an agreement to sell its interest in the mine. Grupo Carso has been excluded since 2011 for its tobacco production, something the company has made clear to the Council on Ethics that it is no longer involved in. The Norwegian Ministry of Finance will now decide when the securities will be re-introduced into the fund’s benchmark index, saying it will be an “appropriately long timeframe.” Norges Bank will decide if and when share purchases will take place. Norway’s Government Pension Fund Global manages approximately $1 trillion of assets. Set up in 1990, the Fund is designed to give the Norwegian government flexibility in its fiscal policy and loosen the economy's reliance on oil price fluctuations. The Fund's diverse holdings include equities, fixed income and real estate on a global scale. In the first quarter of 2019, the Fund enjoyed returns of $85 billion, its strongest ever quarterly result. 