Oil prices rose sharply on the morning of June 20. The price of both Brent and WTI climbed by several dollars. Many said the sudden price increase was linked to reports that Iran shot down a U.S. drone flying over international waters near Iran. However, oil prices have been notoriously impervious to geopolitical tensions in the Persian Gulf of late. Most notably, prices spiked briefly on May 13 and June 13 when tankers in the Persian Gulf and Gulf of Oman were attacked, at those times prices did not not show any sustained gains even though geopolitical tensions in the region remained high. Rather, the rise in oil prices on June 20 can mostly be traced to the U.S. Federal Reserve's comments that a rate cut is in the cards and President Trump's announcement that he and Chinese President Xi will be meeting to discuss trade at the upcoming G20 summit. Oil's gains are mirrored by the S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Oil's recent weakness has largely been do to the assumption that the trade war between China and the US will cause economic activity to slow and subsequently reduce the demand for oil. An interest rate cut or a successful round of talks between Trump and Xi would alleviate some of these fears, promote a stronger economic outlook and buoy expectations for oil demand. Also, interest rate cuts generally mean money targeted at market speculation, which raises prices. Oil prices barely moved when President Trump seemed to downplay the possibility of a U.S. military response against Iran. In remarks delivered during a meeting in the Oval Office with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, he said "I would imagine it was a general or somebody who made a mistake by shooting that drone down. I find it hard to believe it was intentional. It could have been somebody who was loose and stupid." In today's market, while the U.S. is producing an astounding 12.2 million barrels of oil per day, supply fears are minimal. However, the future of oil demand is unclear and that it was creates trader anxiety. Today, geopolitical tensions in the Middle East cannot be counted on to deliver the same automatic increase in oil prices that it once could. 