About 25 years ago, right around the time when I was just starting out as a wealth manager, my mother showed me her father's investment portfolio. He had recently passed away and upon inheriting it, she asked me to manage what he left behind. He was a savvy guy and a shrewd investor, but the holdings were what you would expect for a man his age, dominated by utilities, defense companies and conglomerates. Though all were blue chips, each was clearly starting to lose relevance as the digital era was set to begin. It was literally and metaphorically my grandfather's portfolio. I think of that story when I consider the soon-to-be 89-year-old Warren Buffett. He is the closest thing we have to a superhero in the investment community, and yet this year – and for the last decade or so – his $200 billion investment portfolio has underperformed. To be sure, Buffett deserves every investor's and wealth manager's respect and adulation for all that he's accomplished. The reality, though, is that time waits for no man, not even a legend like him. Some of his decisions in recent years are proof.    Take his puzzling involvement in the merger of Kraft Heinz, which recently took a writedown of more than $15 billion. While he's admitted he made a mistake, his current portfolio doesn't provide any indication he's learned from it. There are big banks (Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo), other staid food and beverage companies (Coca Cola, Restaurant Brands International and Mondelez), underperforming airlines (United, American and Delta) and a rapidly fading tech behemoth (Apple). Twenty years ago, investors would have been wise to have exposure to most if not all these companies. Now, not so much. Younger consumers, for instance, want fresh, healthy food options, not boxed macaroni and processed snacks. Having come of age during the financial crisis, they are also likelier to view large, retail banks negatively, and far more inclined to use online platforms like So-Fi and Ally than previous generations. Meanwhile, the airline industry is on the brink of a tailspin, thanks to increased competition, dwindling profits and volatile oil prices. Granted, he has added Amazon, Verisign and Red Hat, perhaps a sign he's shifted his focus to the future and more willing to listen to some of his younger investment advisers. At the same time, about 65% of his holdings are locked up in firms – Bank of America, Coca Cola, Wells Fargo, American Express and Apple – offering products that consumers seem to be craving less and less as time goes on (iPhones, soda and checking accounts). Even Apple, at one time the quintessential company of the future, has perhaps seen its best days, with the firm far too reliant on one product to generate revenue and unable to make the shift into other, high-growth areas like many of its tech peers. It's anyone's guess whether CEO Tim Cook can successfully redirect the company's business from hardware to services, though an event in March, when he unveiled fresh news and television platforms was not a good omen. Certainly, Berkshire Hathaway defenders will likely point to the fact that its wholly owned subsidiaries still generate substantial cash and value for its shareholders. That may be true now, but looking down the list – GEICO, See's Candies and Benjamin Moore & Co. – it's clear that the mindset that governs these holdings is afflicted with the same old-fashioned thinking as the equity investments. Those many years ago, when I leafed through my grandfather's holdings, I expressed reservations to my mom. She, of course, loved her dad and respected him greatly, so she questioned why drastic moves were necessary. Eventually, I convinced her to sell much of the portfolio and buy shares in Microsoft and Disney, the top technology and consumer companies of the time. That's precisely what we did, and that decision has paid off handsomely for her over the last two decades. The lesson here is clear: Even as we stand on the shoulders of giants as we look toward the future, we should resist the temptation to wed ourselves so closely to the past that it clouds our vision. Buffett has had his run. He needs to retire and it's perhaps time to break up Berkshire Hathaway. Ross Gerber is CEO and president of Santa Monica, Calif-based Gerber Kawasaki Inc., an SEC-registered investment advisor with approximately $862 million in assets under management as of 5/01/19. Gerber Kawasaki clients, firm and employees own positions in Disney, Apple, Microsoft and Amazon. Please seek guidance from an investment advisor before making any investment. All investments involve risk and may not be suitable for your situation. Follow us @gerberkawasaki on Twitter.  