Mitsubishi Heavy Industries will acquire Bombardier’s money-losing CRJ regional jet program for about $550 million in cash, plus the assumption of $200 million in liabilities, the companies announced Tuesday morning, as the Japanese industrial conglomerate prepares to roll out its own line of regional jets. For Bombardier, which rode booming CRJ sales in the 1990s to become the world's No. 3 passenger plane maker, the sale is the final step in a humbling retreat from commercial aerospace borne from billions in losses incurred developing a 100- to 130-seat plane.  Bombardier is holding onto the CRJ production facilities in Mirabel, Quebec, and expects to complete production of the backlog of roughly 40 orders on behalf of Mitsubishi Heavy in the second half of 2020, the companies said. That could well be curtains for the CRJ. A spokesperson for Mitsubishi Heavy declined to comment on whether the company would resume production elsewhere. The prize of the deal for Mitsubishi Heavy is Bombardier's network of CRJ service centers, one of the final pieces of the puzzle for the company in its ambitious attempt to rise from a parts supplier to a full-fledged commercial aircraft maker with its MRJ regional jet line, which it rebranded as the SpaceJet earlier this month.  “If Mitsubishi had to create a new product support structure for the MRJ, that would have been much more expensive,” said Richard Aboulafia, an aerospace analyst with the Teal Group. Mitsubishi Heavy will acquire service and customer support centers in Montreal; Toronto; Bridgeport, West Virginia; and Tucson, Arizona. Bombardier will continue to supply components and spare parts to service existing CRJs, the companies said.  Tokyo-based Mitsubishi Heavy is years behind schedule on developing its twin-engine regional jet, which was initially expected to be launched in 2013 with Japanese airline ANA. Certification of the 90-seat version is believed to be on track for 2020. However, the plane is too big to be used in the crucial U.S. market due to the persistence of so-called scope clauses in U.S. airlines’ labor contracts with their pilots. Scope clauses restrict the major carriers from contracting with regional airlines for flights of planes above 76 seats and a maximum takeoff weight of 86,000 pounds. Mitsubishi had made a losing bet in developing the plane that scope clauses would be relaxed by the time the plane was ready. Embraer made the same miscalculation with its new E2 regional jet line. Mitsubishi Heavy is redesigning a smaller version of the plane, dubbed the M100, that will be scope-clause compliant. It could enter service by 2023. The deal marks the exit of Montreal-based Bombardier from commercial aviation, and the probable end of the line for a landmark aircraft. Bombardier created the regional jet market in 1989 when it launched the CRJ, which was a stretched, 50-seat version of the Challenger business jet that it had acquired a few years prior when it first got into aerospace by buying the struggling aircraft maker Canadair from the Canadian government. With jet fuel cheap in the 1990s, U.S. airlines snapped up the CRJ to replace propeller-driven planes on short-haul routes serving smaller cities. Bombardier has sold 1,950 CRJs, but sales slowed in the early 2000s as oil prices climbed and airline consolidation shrank route networks.  Bombardier refreshed the CRJ in recent years with a new cabin design, but its 1970s-vintage General Electric engines are inefficient by modern standards, and it’s not clear if the plane could be retrofitted with newer ones.  Scope clauses are what's kept a trickle of orders coming in, said Aboulafia. "The debate over the CRJ was whether it would last two years or five," he said. Bombardier stumbled badly earlier this decade with an attempt to challenge Airbus and Boeing by developing a 100- to 130-seat jet, the CSeries, that almost bankrupted the company. CEO Alain Bellemare, who came aboard in 2015, has sold off assets and raised new debt and equity to pare Bombardier’s heavy debt load, aiming to slim the company down to its strongholds in business jets and trains.  