As the S&P 500 Index tests all-time highs with an extraordinarily high valuation by most measures, how can the ten-year Treasury bond yields be declining towards a generational low? Usually, stocks go up when investors are increasingly bullish about the economy, and Treasury bond yields typically fall when investors are increasingly bearish about the economy, but these two effects are happening simultaneously today. The apparent contradiction is difficult to reconcile. It may well be that we are witnessing a temporary anomaly which occasionally surfaces in the financial markets. For example, oil prices skyrocketed to $144 per barrel in 2008 at the same time that the housing bust and financial crisis were starting to accelerate. How could oil prices have risen to record highs just as aggregate demand was falling off a cliff? That anomaly corrected a few months later when oil prices declined by more than 75% to $34 per barrel. Similar to the oil price surge in 2008, the conflicting signals in the stock and bond markets today may simply be a short-term anomaly. If so, then either the stock market is correct and the bond market is mistaken, in which case we should see yields increase soon, or the bond market is correct and the stock market is mistaken, in which case investors should be experiencing a sharp correction in the stock market soon.    Let's look at the stock market and the bond market individually to better understand why we have these seemingly conflicting signals. With the bond market, it’s important to remember that when bond prices increase, bond yields decline. Similarly, when bond prices fall, bond yields expand. This relationship is somewhat counter-intuitive but essential to understand. From November 2018 until June 2019, U.S. Treasury yields declined from 3.23% to 1.99%, which is the lowest yield for ten-year Treasuries since 2016, a year in which Treasury yields hit a new generational low of 1.36%. Why would the ten-year Treasury yield, already relatively low, decline so much during the past eight months? Perhaps, then, the bond market is making sense. With the economy slowing, baby boomers aging, and the Federal Reserve increasingly inclined to become a Treasury buyer, why not buy bonds? However, if that’s the case, why is the S&P 500 Index testing all-time highs right now? With this backdrop, it seems more likely than not that stocks could struggle for the rest of the year and that the Federal Reserve will, if anything, be more aggressive in providing monetary stimulus than most people expect. Unlike 2008, when the Federal Reserve appeared to be asleep at the switch, central banks around the world are alert today, for better or for worse, and stand ready to provide markets with liquidity to avoid another debt crisis. If and when the Federal Reserve floods the economy with additional liquidity, the dollar would likely depreciate and the U.S. stock market would likely react favorably. With that said, the U.S. stock market is still overvalued and, even at 2%, the yield on ten-year Treasuries is hardly compensating investors for future inflation expectations. It may be worth considering alternative asset classes with better risk-reward profiles. Compared to U.S. stocks, foreign stocks look more attractive from a valuation standpoint, and emerging market stocks look far more attractive. Stocks outside the United States have more reasonable valuation ratios, and there are good reasons to expect that stocks outside the United States could outperform if the U.S. dollar does depreciate versus foreign currencies in the coming years. Also, compared to ten-year Treasury bonds, short-term treasury bonds look more attractive. Treasury bonds that mature in a year also pay 2%, so investors would be generating the same level of yield while taking far less duration risk. Gold, too, looks attractive relative to Treasury bonds; as the real (inflation-adjusted) yield on long-term Treasuries declines, which has been occurring recently, gold becomes an increasingly attractive store of value relative to Treasuries. ____ Disclosure: This article is for informational purposes only and does not constitute investment or other professional advice. It is not a recommendation to buy or sell a security. The views are those of Adam Strauss as of the date of publication and are subject to change and to the disclaimers of Appleseed Capital and the disclaimers of Pekin Hardy Strauss Wealth Management.  