OPEC was originally supposed to hold its regular biannual meeting, along with its joint meeting with non-OPEC partner countries, on June 25 and 26. However, less than a month before, Russia’s oil minister, Alexander Novak, suddenly claimed that he had a scheduling conflict. As the largest producer among the non-OPEC partner countries, Russia was important to the meeting. Saudi Arabia backed a rescheduling, but Iran complained that OPEC should not reschedule for a country that is not actually a member of their organization. A meeting around July 3was proposed, but Iran pushed back on this. It’s unlikely that the Iranians were concerned about missing their Fourth of July barbecues. Rather, Iran’s delegation appeared to be making a point that it would not capitulate on behalf of Saudi Arabia and non-member Russia. Eventually, a meeting around July 12 was proposed, but that was never approved either. Just yesterday, on June 19, the OPEC and non-OPEC countries finally agreed on a date—July 1 and July 2. According to OPEC’s bylaws, the group is required to meet twice a year, so it had to be done at some point. While the current quotas are set to finish at the end of June, these new dates will make OPEC only a few days late to roll over the current production quotas—which is what most market watchers expect it to do. The Saudi and Russian oil ministers are also expected to meet privately in Japan the week before at the G-20 summit, so they can enter the July 1 and 2 meeting with a coordinated plan. Saudi Arabia’s oil minister, Khalid Al-Falih, is keen on working with Russia and its massive production capabilities to manipulate the market jointly. The other OPEC nations know this, and it makes some of them bitter. When Iran’s oil minister, Bijan Namdar Zangeneh, threw a minor tantrum over rescheduling to accommodate a non-OPEC country, he was really showing disdain over the cozy relationship between Iran’s enemy—Saudi Arabia—and another powerful oil producer that is benefiting from OPEC without committing to membership. Iran fears the power of the Saudi-Russian partnership. Even though most observers expect OPEC and its non-OPEC partners to simply continue the current production quotas at the upcoming meeting, there is a distinct possibility that the growing animosity and rancor will boil over. U.S. sanctions have forced Iranian oil exports to very low levels and Venezuela’s production is also low because of sanctions and mismanagement. Both countries used to be powerful within OPEC and might oppose a continuation of the status quo just sow discord. Others in OPEC may be unhappy with the continuous appeasement of Russia, especially since Russia has clearly cheated on the production quotas over the last six months. Some of these struggling OPEC countries have nothing to lose by sabotaging the whole deal, even if they gain nothing financially. At the very least, if they sabotage an OPEC deal in July, they could hurt Saudi Arabia and Russia, two countries who have embittered them through their own chumminess. Technically, bitter OPEC members could end any production agreement, because OPEC is supposed to operate based on consensus. Even though everyone expects a quota rollover, it is critical to gauge how angry Iran and Venezuela really are. 