China is exporting deflation to the rest of the world. That is a favorite quote of one of my favorite economists, Andrew Hunt. The tariff tension between the Trump and Xi administrations has greatly pressured the Chinese manufacturing sector this year. While cutting prices is one way to offset a 25% tariff--possibly the only way--that’s just not sustainable. The laws of economics dictate rising input costs over time, not falling ones, and Chinese manufacturers are feeling the squeeze.  The best source of this information is Spencer Fung, CEO of Li & Fung, a Hong Kong-based trading company. In this Bloomberg article, published today, Fung notes the race to the bottom among Chinese manufacturers to cut prices, and the somewhat fruitless race from global purchasers to source outside China. Reading the quote “Vietnam is full” was shocking to me, and the knee-jerk reaction by purchasers to move further southeast on the Asian continent is predictable, but will ultimately fail, I believe.  It’s impossible to pinpoint an exact date, but with the transition from Deng Xioaping to Jiang Zemin in the early 1990s, China clearly moved toward liberalization of its economy. Jiang used the term “socialist market economy,” and as skeptical as many were in the West--I was just beginning my career on Wall Street then and China barely rated a whisper in global economic arguments--that socialist market economy has produced growth in the past 27 years at a rate not previously seen in modern times.    So, China has been investing in manufacturing infrastructure for the past three decades, and it is the fruit of that investment that can not be replicated in other southeast Asian countries. It is not even being attempted in the West, although President Trump has focused on regrowing American manufacturing. Clearly, though, no country can do what China does from a manufacturing standpoint. Companies such as Apple, Nike and many others produce products in China, and it would be impossible to find a Western company that doesn’t source materials or goods from China, with retailers like Walmart at the top of that list. The Chinese economy has pivoted to a downcycle very quickly. My favorite indicator--and the industry I have followed for the past 27 years--is the auto sector. Don’t let a minor bump in reported car sales in June in China fool you. Those were inventory clear-outs ahead of a new emissions regime (China 6, which began on July 1.) Wholesales of Chinese-made passenger vehicles actually fell 8.4% in June, and that metric has now declined in China for 13 consecutive months. How is the socialist market economy dealing with this? Just like the rest of the world. On the day when Fed Chair Powell reassured Congress that the Fed’s spigot of free money would be loosened with a rate cut in a few weeks time, there is increasing speculation that the People's Bank of China will lower interest rates soon, as well. That would be the PBOC’s first rate cut since October 2015.  So, as a U.S.-based investor, the implications are murky. China’s exported deflation helps companies like Apple and Nike fight the natural margin pressures inherent in selling consumer goods, but those companies are also depending on China to be a fruitful end market for an increasing proportion of those goods. The Chinese consumer’s slowdown makes that a much more difficult task. Ultimately, the biggest fear is that margin pressures become too great for run-of-the-mill Chinese manufacturing companies to profitably manage. That would be the beginning of a credit contagion, the likes of which has not been seen since the Asian debt crisis of 1998. With interest rates so low--and set to go lower--by historical standards around the world, it is a reminder of my firm, Excelsior Capital Partners’ motto: cash flow never lies.  Coming off a year in which the aggregate profitability of Shanghai and Shenzhen-listed stocks fell 1.7%, I am expecting a much shaper decline in Corporate China’s profitability in 2019. The question becomes: at what point do Chinese companies feel so much pain that they cannot cut prices any further? At that point, exported deflation will cease to be a boon for Western economies.  I believe we are nearing that inflection point and Western consumers will have to deal with higher prices for consumer goods just as oil prices--which drive priced for plastics and many other goods in addition to gasoline--have broken through $60 per barrel on the West Texas Intermediate benchmark in today’s trading. I think it's going to be a very slow period for economic growth in the West in the second half of 2019. I don’t think earnings estimates for companies on either side of the Atlantic reflect that. So, as the market cheers Powell’s dovishness with yet another new all-time high today, I am ready--via Excelsior--to pounce on a quick move to the downside. With all the talk of market bubbles, deflation seems a very appropriate term. 