Some of the world's biggest oil companies, including Royal Dutch Shell and an arm of the Chinese Government controlled PetroChina, are at risk of forfeiting their investment in a proposed $20 billion liquefied natural gas (LNG) development in Australia. Other companies with a stake in the Browse LNG project include Mitsubishi and Mitsui of Japan, British-based BP, and Australia's biggest pure-play oil and gas company, Woodside Petroleum. Waiting 50 Years Discovered almost 50 years ago the Browse gasfields are in remote Indian Ocean waters off Australia's north-west coast, approximately 270 miles from the historic pearling center of Broome. Despite containing an estimated 13.9 trillion cubic feet of gas and 390 million barrels of light crude oil repeated development proposals have failed. The latest plan is to extract the gas and pipe it 560 miles to the existing North West Shelf LNG processing facility managed by Woodside but with an ownership structure that includes U.S.-based Chevron Corporation, the Australian mining company, BHP, along Shell, BP and the two Japanese companies, Mitsubishi and Mitsui. Multiple Owners It's in the different ownership structures at the two ends of the Browse project that problems have developed with PetroChina not a North West Shelf participant while BHP and Chevron are not participants in the gasfields. Aligning the interests of the two groups has proved difficult for Woodside, the manager of both syndicates, and a source of increasing annoyance for the Australian Government which is keen to see a major new LNG project developed after almost 50 years of waiting. Frustration with the delays in shifting the Browse project off the drawing board has led to warnings from the government agency in charge of oil and gas exploration and development that it's time to make a development commitment or risk forfeiting the leases covering the gasfields. Under Australian law underground resources, such as minerals, oil and gas are the property of the government with private investors requiring a licence to explore and develop, as well as meeting ongoing expenditure requirements. "Use-It, Or Lose-It" To not comply risks enforcement of "use it, or lose it" terms in all leases. In the case of the Browse project its retention leases come up for renewal next year and could, in theory, not be renewed. In practice forfeiture is highly unlikely because the damage it would do to Australia's international business reputation as well as raising the spectre of sovereign risk in a country which traditionally welcomes foreign investment. But there have been cases in the past when use-it, or lose-it laws have led to government encouragement for a mineral discovery which was not been fully developed to be sold to a new owner. The big miner, Rio Tinto, sold its Ellendale diamond project under government urging after financial analysis showed that the diamond fields were marginally profitable. Over time, Rio Tinto was proved right and successive owners of Ellendale have struggled to make a profit. Commerciality Test It's in the commerciality test that the Australian Government will have a problem in trying to enforce its use-it, or lose-it powers which, in the case of Browse are administered by the National Offshore Petroleum Titles Administration (NOPTA). According to a research report published yesterday by Credit Suisse, an investment bank, NOPTA has warned the Browse joint venture that it believes a development of the gasfields may be economically viable. "We understand that NOPTA has developed a well-informed view of the project dynamics, and expect that such a strong message from NOPTA would be driven from the highest ministerial level in Canberra," Credit Suisse said. "We consider the government threat to be very real and credible given the tax revenue and economic considerations at stake with joint venture alignment rather than economics remaining the key hurdle." "We see that government pressure is likely to be needed, and will be brought to bear, to push the development towards the finishing line."