Global Growth Should Disappoint Once again, it certainly has been a wild ride for the past three months and we clearly did not foresee all the market and economic conniptions, but for long-term global investors, our conclusion in March was correct for continuing to have a positive stance on a globally diversified portfolio of equities. Timing the markets is never easy, especially for large institutional investors, but the MSCI World Index actually rose an annualized 20% in USD terms since our last meeting, justifying our view. Clearly, global GDP continues to be in a soft patch, primarily caused by the fears and direct effects of the US-China trade/technology war. The question is how long will the war and soft patch last and what will central banks do about it? Recently, equity markets have strongly indicated little concern about persistent economic weakness and are looking forward to major improvements in overall conditions ahead, especially due to the Fed pivot towards cutting rates, while fixed income investors are assuming a large structural decrease in inflation in the years ahead (perhaps due to changing methods of CPI calculation), a global recession, or some combination of both. In the background, there is a generalized concern about being at the end of an economic cycle, coupled with high debt levels that are becoming hard to sustain, but we all know that this cycle is very different than all previous ones, so it is very difficult to predict, but at least central banks are giving the world another helping hand. However, we do not think such, when faced with our forecast of worsening tariff/tech wars and even higher geopolitical risk effects on market, will be able to keep equities and economies from undershooting consensus expectations. So, while Committee was fairly evenly divided between a moderately positive scenario and moderately negative scenario ahead, it tilted in the end for the latter. Indeed, we finally reversed our stance that BREXIT, the China-US trade wars and other major outstanding geopolitical risks will not be major problems for markets; rather, such will likely decrease economic growth, corporate profits and risk appetite, but not catastrophically. So, the G-3 and Chinese economies should grow below consensus through June 2020, while we expect central banks to reduce interest rates and add other accommodative actions. With such as the backdrop, we expect bond yields to decline further, the USD to have mixed fortunes and equity markets to decline, but not precipitously so. In our early March meeting, our GDP forecasts for the 2Q19 -3Q19 were clearly too high for Japan and Europe, but this is partly due to firm 1Q results creating a higher base. Our 2Q19 -3Q19 forecast for the US was quite accurate, but that for the following two quarters was a bit too high. Our forecasts for China were too high as well. Interestingly, current consensus expectations for CY19 GDP for each of the G-4 are practically the same as they were in our early March meeting, despite the tremendous worries broadcasted by most economists and bond market investors. Looking forward, U.S. GDP, at a 1.3% Half on Half Seasonally Adjusted Annualized Rate (HoH SAAR, as used in all references below) in the 2H19 and 1H20, should undershoot economist-consensus expectations of 1.8% for each. Personal consumption and government spending will likely be the only major contributors to growth. Meanwhile, the Eurozone should grow 1.2% in each period vs. consensus of 1.2% and 1.4%, respectively, and Japan’s will likely grow, after a very strong 1Q, at -0.2% in the 2H19 and 0.0% in the 1H20, vs. the current consensus of 0.1% and 0.2%, respectively. Japan’s forecasted weakness is due to the VAT hike scheduled in October, although we expect the front-loading of spending before such and subsequent dip to be quite moderate this time, especially compared to the 2014 hike when Japan’s economic stability and consumer/corporate confidence was much less sturdy. For CY19, growth for the U.S., Eurozone and Japan should be 2.3%, 1.2% and 0.6%, respectively. Finally, China’s official GDP should be approximately 5.0% HoH SAAR in the 2H19 and 4.8% in the 1H20, as the trade and tech wars will reduce growth despite added fiscal stimulus. Overall, these G-4 GDP results should disappoint risk markets, and corporate profit estimates should continue to show further deceleration in the 2H19 and perhaps show only marginal growth in the 1H20. There is absolutely good reason for increased concern about many geopolitical issues, especially regarding China, the Middle East and BREXIT. The trade war with China will likely see some truce fairly soon, with continued talks ahead, but such will not, in our view, prevent tariffs on all remaining goods from gradually rising to 25%. We expect that China will meaningfully retaliate against such, with some of such being just the populace further shunning U.S. products, but Yuan devaluation is unlikely. The auto trade dispute between the U.S. and Europe/Japan is also unsolved, but Trump may feel that he cannot battle them while confronting China, and will take heart that their FDI in the US auto industry is increasing substantially, even for hybrid/electric models. This dispute, however, could well impact Chinese autoparts exports to the U.S., which are quite substantial, to a large degree. Meanwhile, we expect the “technology war” will continue to be a global economic inhibiter in the name of national security. There is also the possibility that North Korea could become a hot issue again. In Europe, there never seems to be an end to the messy politics in the region, and BREXIT will likely become a real problem for risk markets. The crisis between the US and Iran is quite scary indeed, although Trump seems unwilling to take the first military military shot. Lastly for the U.S., while market uncertainty related to impeachment and recriminations by both parties may rise sharply at times, the chance of a major U.S. political upheaval remain slim in the next two quarters, although the 2020 elections will become more of a worry for markets that year. Central Banks: More Than Just Insurance Cuts Clearly, our Fed call in March for 25 bps hikes in the 4Q19 and 1Q20 was too hawkish. We now expect 50 bps of cuts in the 3Q19, 25 bps more in the 4Q19 and stable thereafter. Our previous call for the ECB’s first 20 bps hike in 1Q20 was too hawkish too and we now expect 10 bps cuts in the 3Q19 and 4Q19, followed by stability. We were, however, correct in not expecting BOJ hikes in policy rates or YCC rates, but now we expect 4Q19 and 2Q20 cuts of 10 bps. We expect the PBOC to be dovish too, but not radically enough to cause Yuan devaluation. As for inflation, we expect U.S. Core CPI to be 1.7% YoY next December and June, with higher import tariff adding to inflation while housing rent and new statistical methods should subtract from inflation. We expect the headline CPI to be 1.4% in those months, with oil prices rising moderately due to increased Middle East concerns, but food and utility prices declining. Low inflation and increased market perceptions of it remaining structurally low, will push the G-3 central banks, in our opinion, moderately beyond insurance cuts, but in sum, we do not see central banks as cutting irresponsibly. That said, there certainly is some element of a currency war in many people’s minds, especially that of Trump’s. As for overall commodity prices, the Bloomberg Index should also move mildly upward in the next few quarters, primarily led by a recovery in oil and the large weight for gold, which we expect to rise further. Mixed USD and Futher Declines in G-3 Bond Yields Given our scenario, we expect G-3 bond yields to continue declining in the next few quarters. For U.S. 10Y Treasuries, our target for end-September is 1.95%, while those for 10Y JGBs and German Bunds are -0.2% and -0.35%, respectively. For calendar year-end, we expect 1.90%, -0.25% and -0.40%, respectively, and for June 2020, we expect 1.80%, -0.35% and -0.5%. This implies (coupled with our forex targets) that including coupon income, the Citigroup WGBI (index of global bonds) should produce a 1.2% unannualized return from our base date of June 21st through September in USD terms, 2.2% through December and 4.7% through June 2020. Thus, we now have a much more enthusiastic stance on global bonds for USD-based investors. For Yen-based investors, the WGBI index in Yen terms should return 0.2%, 0.3% and 1.7% for those periods, with JGBs returning 0.4%, 1.0% and 2.0%. Regarding forex, larger Fed cuts than the BOJ’s and ECB’s, coupled with global worries about U.S. budget and trade deficits, should cause the Yen to strengthen to 105 by year-end and 104 in the following quarters, while BREXIT worries should cause the Euro to be basically flat in the four quarters ahead from our base date level 1.14. Meanwhile, our call for the AUD:USD is for 0.67 at end-December and 0.66 at end-June 2020. Moderately Negative on Global Equities As for a performance review, through June 21st, the MSCI World Index in USD terms rose 5.0% from our March 1st base date vs. our +4.2% expectation for end-June. The S&P 500 actually moderately overshot our bullish target, while TOPIX in Yen undershot our positive target (but only mildly so in USD). EuroSTOXX (in both currencies) and Developed Asia ex Japan were basically on target. Globally, bonds performed much better than we expected, while our currency calls were mixed, with the Euro on target but the Yen stronger than we expected. One might think that with weaker than consensus economic growth and decelerating earnings growth, coupled with major increases in geopolitical risks, we would be very bearish; however, equity investors have proven time and again to remain constructive on risk during a period of low interest rates, with the view that the economy and profits will not dip too far and will recover before long. This view could easily be dashed if U.S. or global political risks accelerate massively, but until such is clear, equity investors don’t seem likely to flinch much. However, some improvement in geopolitical affairs, especially the U.S.-China dispute, is priced into markets, so our new scenario will be disappoint consensus and we can no longer be positive on global equities (as has been our view for virtually the entire period since the Global Financial Crisis). Further moderate declines in interest rates will help soften any correction, but equity valuations will likely decline a bit. Aggregating our national forecasts from our base date, we forecast that the MSCI World Total Return Index will decline by 1.2% (unannualized) in USD terms through September, by 1.9% through December and by 4.0% through June 2020 (-2.1%, -3.8% and -6.7% in Yen terms). Clearly, this suggests a moderately negative stance on global equities for both USD-based and Yen-based investors. In the U.S., the S&P 500 outperformed our fairly bullish target for June, but its PER on the CY19 EPS consensus estimate is now 17.7 times, which is on the high side even with lower projected interest rates, especially as earnings estimates are likely to be downgraded a bit. A continued high level of share buybacks will help support the market, but given our increasingly problematic global macro and risk forecasts, we expect the SPX to hit 2917 (-0.6% total unannualized return from our base date) at end-September, and 2884 at the end of 2019 (-1.2% return) and 2780 at end June 2020 (-3.8% return). European equities performed well in Euro and USD terms during the last three months and hit our relatively optimistic index target for end-June. This market is also now predicting the U.S.-China trade conflicts will improve greatly, but it will likely be disappointed on that score, and GDP should be fairly sluggish, so especially as higher Eurozone and BREXIT political risk will become market impacting, we see the Euro Stoxx index falling to 362 and the FTSE to 7120 at end-September, to 351 and 6900 at year-end, and 338 and 6500 at end June 2020, which translates to returns of -3.0% (unannualized), -4.3% and -5.7%, respectively for the MSCI Europe in USD terms. Japanese equities have disappointed, falling in Yen terms (but rising a bit in USD terms) during the reporting period, and valuations are now very low, at 12.4 times CY19 EPS consensus earnings. The decline in the global semiconductor and smartphone cycles (which hits Japanese semiconductor product equipment, electronic components and supplies very badly), soft global auto sales, weakening Chinese demand for capex goods and other factors have pushed down EPS estimates this year and next, and most analysts no longer expect the semiconductor cycle to improve much in the 2HCY19. So, while the dividend yield of 2.5% is very attractive for domestic investors (and for global investors too if the Yen appreciates like we expect), and corporate governance continues to improve (despite a few hiccups) with share buybacks rising very sharply, the poor global backdrop means that we expect TOPIX at end-September to be 1517, 1493 through December and 1460 through June 2020, for total unannualized returns of -0.3%, -0.2% and -0.8% in USD terms, respectively (-1.2%, -2.1% and -3.6% in Yen terms). As mentioned earlier, there is some uncertainty about how volatile economic sentiment will be in the lead up to the proposed VAT hike in October 2019, as the last hike caused major disruption, but we think the bumps should be quite mild this time as the economy is now on much sturdier ground and consumers realize that they over-reacted the last time. As for the Developed Pacific-ex Japan MSCI, it performed in line with global markets in the last three months. A more dovish Fed also helps Hong Kong shares, which are greatly tied to the interest rate-sensitive domestic property market, but the political unrest there is certainly a key factor looking forward as the population seems likely to continue a very strong stance vs. the authorities. Australia’s economy is currently as weak as it has been in ages, but iron ore prices have held up due to the Brazilian disaster, as has inward tourism. The downturn in its property market is certainly impacting sentiment, however. In sum, we expect the region’s MSCI index to return -5.5% (unannualized return in USD terms) through September, -6.0% through December and -5.4% through June 2020. Investment Strategy Concluding View There is little doubt that geopolitical risks are increasingly significant and that the global economy is entering a softer period, yet we are even somewhat more pessimistic than consensus, so the Global Investment Committee has finally reversed its positive outlook on global equities. We expect the least-worst returns to be in Japan, with the US behind it, and Europe and Developed Pacific ex Japan trailing even a bit further behind. None of these downturns are of major size, so long term investors should not panic; rather a moderate underweighting of global equities is called for. Meanwhile, global bond yields should rise slightly, so we now have an enthusiastic view on global bond returns in all major currency terms. It is notable, however, that more so now than ever, the downside and upside risks for risk markets are large, especially the upside risk if the U.S. and China make major improvements in their relationship and, thus, avoid the Thucydides Trap. 