Despite seemingly endless turmoil and clickbait headlines, oil prices haven't actually changed all that much since Memorial Day, with WTI now back into the high $50s. WTI has varied from $51 to $59 but is still right where it was to end May - and hasn't broken $60 since May 22. Even with the bullish geopolitical turmoil, fears of slowing economic growth and thus new oil demand have been the vital drivers over the past six weeks. Now in the 0.8 million b/d to 1.2 million b/d range, estimates for incremental global oil demand this year have been falling This could put new demand at the lowest level since 2014, when per BP data 0.92 million b/d was the yearly incremental gain (demand fell in 2009 and 2008). "Hedge funds sell crude as economy fears trump OPEC cuts." Although stuck in a trade war with the U.S., China is still expected to account for two-thirds of new growth this year, helped by a silent stockpiling program for commercial storage to cover 90 days of imports. Next year, new global oil demand is expected to about double to as high as 1.7 million b/d, again indicating oil usage is not in structural decline but follows the path of economic growth. Oil, you should know, is the world's most important fuel and has no large-scale substitute whatsoever. U.S. shale oil output growth has been outpacing new demand and keeping a lid on prices, but that might be a problem if use rises that much next year. Saudi Energy Minister Khalid al-Falih is convinced that U.S. shale oil production is on the verge of peaking. But, reaching 13.3 million b/d, EIA has U.S. producers adding another 1 million b/d next year, as compared to the average this year. Already producing more than 4.2 million b/d (almost half of the U.S. tight oil supply), the Permian basin in West Texas could double in the next four or five years. Overall for the U.S. oil industry, the efficiency improvements have been simply astounding. Back in October of 2014, for instance, over 1,600 active oil rigs yielded 8.9 million b/d; today, some 790 rigs are yielding 12.2 million b/d. OPEC and its Russia-led allies have decided to extend their production cuts into the end of March 2020, putting a floor under the market. In June, OPEC output sank to a five-year low, as a rise in Saudi supply couldn't offset losses in Iran and Venezuela. Russia has also become increasingly compliant with the cuts, with its emerging relationship with Saudi Arabia having a geopolitical context. The key problem is that the production cut agreement has no endgame, just staving off oversupply for as long as possible. Nobody knows what the grand strategy is here. There is growing frustration from OPEC members that the decision to extend should have been made by OPEC as a whole, not bullied by Saudi Arabia and Russia. Meanwhile, President Trump expects OPEC to keep prices low to make sure gasoline stays cheap moving toward the elections next year. OPEC members are becoming increasingly able to cope with lower prices 