Trump may be unexpectedly gaining advantage in the US-China trade war after Iran’s attacks in the Strait of Hormuz last month, the world’s most important oil chokepoint according to the Energy Information Administration (EIA). In the second half of 2018, Trump’s tariffs on Chinese goods triggered a sharp dip in China’s imports of US oil. Michael Hsueh, Fixed Income Research Analyst at Deutsche Bank, noted in a report that there was a “near-halt in Chinese crude oil imports from the US after the first imposition of tariffs in September 2018 and a consequent rise in Chinese imports from Saudi Arabia.” However, after this month’s US-Iran turbulence in the Strait of Hormuz, there may be an opening for US oil to re-enter Chinese markets. On June 13, an allegedly Iranian attack on Japanese-owned oil tanker Kokuka Courageous, used by American oil giant Exxon Mobil, sparked tensions between the US and Iran. This event, which happened in the Strait of Hormuz, was followed by the shooting down of a US surveillance drone on June 20 in the same channel, which almost triggered a military response from the Trump administration. The most recent development in US-Iran news has been Trump’s announcement of new sanctions on Iran as retaliation for the “series of aggressive behaviors by the Iranian regime in recent weeks.” An even temporary hindrance to the flow of oil through the Strait of Hormuz would result in a surge in world energy prices, according to the EIA. The Strait, located between Oman and Iran, has an oil flow averaging 21 million barrels-day, or the equivalent of 21% of global consumption and of one-third of the total seaborne traded oil. Even more significant, the exorbitant rise in shipping costs in the Persian Gulf could make US crude competitive against Aramco oil. Risk levels associated with shipping crude oil and LNG via the Strait of Hormuz, the Middle East's key shipping artery, have escalated sharply inflating tanker costs in the region, according to S&P Global Platts. This high risk level is reflected in the surging insurance costs of shipping cargo through the Strait. Peter Sand, Chief Shipping Analyst at BIMCO, calculated that VLCC (Very Large Crude Carrier) tankers’ freight rates between the Arabian Gulf and China rose 101% in the days between June 13 and 20, in the aftermath of attacks on two tankers in the Strait of Hormuz. The price of insuring a crude carrier on June 20, between the Arabian Gulf and China, reached $25,994 per day—their highest level since March and significantly above the May average of $9,979 per day. While longer, the path undertaken by tankers to reach China from the US (rather than from the Persian Gulf) does not transit through so-called "war risk zones," according to an Allianz report. This means that the comprehensive cost of shipping oil from the US to China includes a much lower war risk premium than the Persian Gulf route does, potentially making US oil an attractive alternative to Chinese refineries. A possible obstacle for US exporters is that the bulk of China’s imported oil is purchased through long-term contracts with Aramco, the Saudi Arabian national petroleum and natural gas company. This oil supply is not affected by US-Iran tensions and by cost volatility in the Gulf region. However, a number of smaller non state-owned refineries in China—also known as teapots—are not bound by state-mandated long-term contracts. According to Arthur Berman, a geological consultant with experience in petroleum exploration and production, teapots are “pretty large-scale operations” in spite of their name. In fact, a report from Columbia University’s Center on Global Energy Policy explains that they account for about one third of China’s total refining capacity. Teapots may be an entryway to Chinese markets for US exporters. The surge in US oil exports to China in the first half of 2018 was largely attributable to teapot refineries buying oil on the spot market, and not through long-term contracts, explains Arthur Berman. The growth in US oil production—most of which is shale oil—is made up of mostly light oil and is in lower demand from large Chinese refineries than from teapots, which is good news for US producers. “Teapots are competitive, they are going to buy what they can get for the lowest cost,” says Berman. Berman explains that insurance companies are highly susceptible to risk fluctuations. Even though “the crisis is largely over,” he says, “it’s going to take some time of no sabotage before [insurance companies] start to come off of that range.” While bad for global oil market prices, this may help US suppliers reenter the region. The surge in shipping costs “can have an impact but it’s not the predominant force,” says Dr Dean Foreman, the Chief Economist at the American Petroleum Institute (API). He explains that shipping prices have experienced “tectonic up and down shifts this year,” so the substantial rise recently observed may be a cyclical increase—part of the recovery from an unusually low shipping cost level reached earlier this year. Both experts underline the importance of a trade deal between the US and China. Teapots are only independent up to a certain extent so “if China doesn’t want to buy US oil then the teapots are not going to,” says Berman. Similarly, Foreman explains that “it’s really the trade frictions that have been the main determinant of Chinese demand for US crude oil.” This past weekend's G20 meeting in Osaka ended positively for US-China trade. Trump and Jinping agreed to resume trade talks, which could help American oil exporters to once again enter Chinese markets. Nevertheless, Foreman is confident that the US oil market is going strong even without Chinese demand for it. He concludes that it's "better with China, but a strong industry even without it."