Millionaires and billionaires had a tough time of it in 2018. According to new research, published today, the wealth of the world's high-net-worth population fell by around $2 trillion in 2018. But it is a loss that most of them will be able to cope with – the world’s richest people still had more than $68 trillion in assets to share between them at the end of 2018. The Asia Pacific region was the worst affected last year, losing around $1 trillion in high-net-worth wealth. China alone accounted for about half of that. Europe also suffered a dip of about $500 billion in the value of the assets held by its high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs), with Brexit paralysis a leading cause of the 6% fall in wealth in the UK. Latin America, North America and Africa all saw the value of their HNWIs’ portfolios also fall, by $300 billion, $200 billion and $100 billion respectively. But one corner of the world bucked the trend. The Middle East recorded the only increase in HNWI wealth last year, with the assets of the region’s wealthy increasing by more than 4% last year to $2.6 trillion. According to Capgemini, the consultancy firm behind the World Wealth Report 2019, the global fall in HNWI assets was caused by a combination of weak stock market performance – Chinese stock markets alone saw a drop of more than $2.5 trillion in market capitalization over the year – and slowing economies in some key markets such as India. In response to the downturn, HNWIs have been shifting assets away from stock markets and into areas such as cash, real estate and fixed income products. The reason the Middle East was able to counter the downward trend in wealth last year, according to Capgemini, was largely down to a combination oil price movements and fiscal reforms to support the local economies. As a result, HNWI wealth in Saudi Arabia increased by 4% while in Kuwait it rose by 6%. However, the situation was not so benign in other parts of the region and in the UAE, where stock markets performed particularly badly last year, the wealth of HNWIs fell by 9%. There are now some 18 million HNWIs around the world, down slightly from 18.1 million a year before, as declining asset values pushed some people out of the reckoning. Capgemini groups the world’s wealthy into three bands. At the top are the ultra HNWIs, with assets of $30m or more. There are just 168,000 of these people around the world, but they account for a third of all HNWI wealth. At the next level down are the mid-tier millionaires. They number some 1.6 million and each have assets of between $5 million and $30 million. Below them are the so-called “millionaires next door”, who have assets of between $1 million and $5 million. They are far more numerous, with some 16.2 million of them dotted around the globe, accounting for 44% of total HNWI wealth. Where the wealthy live Asia-Pacific is home to more wealth individuals than any other part of the world, with 6.1 million HNWIs. The region has led in this regard since 2015, in an indication of the global shifts in economic power and influence. It is followed by North America with 5.7 million HNWIs, then Europe with 4.8 million. Other regions have far fewer, with around 700,000 in the Middle East, 600,000 in Latin America and 200,000 in Africa. In terms of individual countries, though, the more established economies still dominate. In the lead is the U.S. with 5.3 million HNWIs, followed by Japan and Germany. China is in in fourth place overall with 1.2 million HNWIs. Between them these four countries account for 61% of all HNWIs around the world, up from a 58% share in 2012, pointing to a greater concentration of wealth globally.