A lot has been written recently about how renewables and other environmentally sustainable solutions are increasingly cost-competitive versus incumbent technologies. But for actual production you need to put projects out there. And for any energy, water, etc. project to be deployed, you need investment dollars to come in to fund project development, construction and operations. No money, no project. For a long time, the incumbent solutions -- especially fossil-fuel based projects -- have had an underwritability advantage over any upstarts, especially sustainable ones. They have had a longer operational track record and a deeper bench of investors familiar with the markets and other success factors. This appears to be shifting, however, in many parts of the energy, food, water and waste markets. Not only have renewables and other sustainability solutions strengthened their operational track record along the way, and attracted more of a following among the financial industry, fossil-fuel based projects in particular are seeing their underwritability erode. An often under-appreciated aspect for project funders evaluating an investment opportunity is "revenue quality". Ideally, as a project investor you want to see that the project will have highly predictable revenues associated with it, paid by highly reliable "offtakers", for as long a duration as possible. Thus, it seems important that revenue quality appears to have been declining for significant portions of the fossil fuel universe. S&P's Taylor Kuykendall recently posted some data, for example, showing how coal contracts are now dominated by short term (spot market or <1 year). Meanwhile, oilfield services giant Weatherford has declared bankruptcy -- since the oilpatch has long been driven by very short-term contracting in general, even as oil prices remain a decent levels, a recent slowdown in drilling activity has a severe impact on the services industry. All this comes amidst an ongoing trend of electric utilities shifting away from fossil-based generation (even natural gas-based). It seems like, regardless of political inaction and rhetoric, the market is reacting to rapidly-falling prices and other pro-renewables market tailwinds. And one of the most important reactions may be to erode the revenue quality of fossil-based projects. Which will just make such projects even harder to finance. Contrast this with many sustainability projects that we see. In the renewables market, for instance, not only utilities but also direct corporate customers are increasingly signing long-term offtake agreements. And this isn't just for renewables in the electricity market, but across other portions of the water, food, energy and waste markets, a lot of the emerging solutions can also be made to have strong revenue quality -- long-duration, set-price, and predictable volumes. Waste-to-energy projects, for example, can take advantage of not only 15+ year power purchase agreements on the back end, but also like-duration "tipping contracts" to lock in waste input on the front end. In the water space, we're seeing corporate customers willing to sign long-term service contracts analogous to the aforementioned renewables procurement trends. These sustainability solutions, and thus their markets, have the potential to be inherently more predictable than the incumbent, extraction-based markets they are capturing share from. This is a potentially huge and underappreciated benefit for entrepreneurs, project developers and financiers of sustainability. As the revenue quality of such projects becomes increasingly proven, it'll help attract even more mainstream capital to these sectors. But only if the projects are designed for such predictability. And they often aren't. Entrepreneurs and developers rushing into the energy storage market, for example, are quite often currently willing to build projects based upon ancillary services revenue that isn't locked in long term. We see many small-scale project developers across all these sectors still taking the "easy route" with their potential customers, and offering up shorter-term contracts that may be more palatable to those customers, but harder to finance. Somewhat counter-intuitively, emerging sustainability solutions should increasingly have a project finance advantage over incumbent solutions, based upon higher-quality, more predictable revenues. But only if the entrepreneurs and project developers design them to take advantage of this opportunity. It's time for these developers to start thinking as much about making their projects financeable, as they think about how to get customers to say 'yes'.