Crude oil markets greeted the long-anticipated agreement to extend the OPEC+ export limitations with a yawn and a price drop of about 6% this week. Speculators hoping that the nations who are parties to that deal would implement further cuts at their meeting in Vienna had apparently already priced those dreams into the price of oil, and their disappointment overshadowed another significant draw-down in U.S. inventories and the restart of U.S./China trade negotiations. Regardless, the outcome of the OPEC+ meeting basically sets the field of play for the remainder of the year. Now, the question for the U.S. shale industry becomes, where do we go from here? It's a very good question. One of the big problems globally is that traders are losing confidence in the belief that OPEC+ can continue to offset growth in U.S. shale production and what the market believes will become slower global demand growth in the months and years to come. Or, as Morgan Stanley put it on Wednesday: Completion of a favorable trade deal between the U.S. and China could add some bullish pressure to the market if it appears to be stimulative to China's economy. Whether that trade deal will ultimately come about is anyone's guess. This level of price uncertainty, combined with ongoing difficulty accessing capital markets, will most likely result in smaller drilling budgets for U.S. producers during the second half of the year. The pace of drilling already slowed during the first six months of 2019, but overall production continued to grow, as U.S. daily production exceeded 12 million barrels for the first time in history during April , according to the Energy Information Administration (EIA). Continued production growth at the same pace for the rest of the year would result in the U.S. adding 1.5 million barrels of oil per day to the global market. That pace of growth simply must slow further for prices to move appreciably higher than their current levels. All of this price uncertainty helps to explain why, despite Occidental Petroleum's whopping purchase of Anadarko, the pace of mergers and acquisitions in the industry was otherwise fairly moribund during the first half of the year . In fact, according to a new report by DrillingInfo this week, the Oxy-Anadarko deal represented 88% of all M&A activity for the second quarter. The only other multi-billion dollar deal during Q2 was the $2.2 billion buyout of Haynesville Shale producer Covey Park by Comstock Resources. Despite ongoing rumors of a coming new wave of Permian Basin-focused M&A deals, DrillingInfo reports that "wide expectations in price between buyers and sellers makes deals challenging. What could take place are further 'mergers of equals' like the Midstates/Amplify deal in May and the recent oilfield services combination of Keane Group and C&J Energy, with both deals leading to a 50-50 ownership structure between existing shareholders in the new companies." I have written previously about the fact that, unlike other nations, the U.S. government has no legal mechanism available to force drilling and production discipline on the domestic oil and gas industry. One positive aspect of this reality is that it has allowed the domestic industry to create much greater energy security than the country had less than a decade ago. But one negative aspect of it is that, whenever crude prices become unusually strong, the industry pretty much invariably ends up drilling itself into another price bust. I have personally seen that very dynamic take place four times during my 40 year career in the business. All other factors aside, the U.S. oil industry is in the process of doing that once again. But this time, market pressures from investors, financiers and traders are slowly forcing producers to slow down. Whether these market factors can slow the U.S. industry's impulse to "drill, baby, drill" quickly enough to avoid another full-blown bust remains to be seen. 