Motorsport purists have finally begun to give Formula E – a growing class of FIA backed motorsport that uses only electric-powered race cars – some very welcome attention. For all intents and purposes, the championship offers plenty of thrills, spills, crashing, overtaking and aggression, minus much of the racetrack noise people usually associate with events of this nature. While its illustrious fossil fuel driven variant Formula 1 is being described as predictable these days, with Mercedes' Lewis Hamilton practically walking away with the 2019 title, Formula E is anything but predictable. The 2019 championship that concluded on Sunday (July 14), had eight different winners in the first eight races, with Frenchman Jean-Eric Vergne of Team DS Techeetah ultimately crowned as the season's champion right at the final race in New York, U.S. Vergne's elation at winning is more or less being matched by the corporate exuberance of electrification and robotics giant ASEA Brown Boveri (ABB). In January 2018, the Swiss company inked a seven-year, multimillion dollar title sponsorship deal with Formula E, and has taken the tie-up to its heart.    And why wouldn't it, for the deal gave ABB the naming rights to what’s now the 'ABB Formula-E' championship and a natural fit for a company that's sold over 11,000 DC fast chargers for vehicles across 76 countries, according to Tarak Mehta, President of Electrification Business at ABB. Speaking to your correspondent at the Red Hook, Brooklyn circuit stateside where the Formula E season reached its conclusion, Mehta noted: "Its motorsport with energy efficiency and sustainability at its core, unlike its fossil fuel counterparts. It brings awareness, exposure and support for a concept showcasing sustainable human mobility, a cause we champion as a company because we want electric powered vehicles to be ubiquitous from our standpoint. "The kind of performance you see on the track that we are partners in facilitating, serves as a benchmark for our research and development (R&D)." Those R&D labs are situated in the Netherlands, Italy and China, with the latter location dubbed a "trailblazer" in electric mobility by Mehta. People might find that ironic for a country that's the world's largest importer of crude oil, but the ABB executive said it's streets ahead of any other market both in terms of private vehicle and public electric transportation fleets, and the deployment, development and grid enhancement. From Beijing to Boston, "all the data, technology exchanges and dialogues with automakers that we make over the course of the Formula E season feeds into our thinking." Much of that thinking narrows down to bringing down charging times and enhancement of power duration. The Formula E race cars themselves offer proof of that. When the concept cars of 2011 hit the track in the inaugural season in 2014, they lasted 25 minutes on the track with an engine delivery limit of 28KWh, and power of 200kW. Fast forward to 2019, the "Generation 2" cars last a full race of 45 minutes plus a final lap with an engine delivery limit of 54KWh, and power of 250kW. These powerful race cars might well need a 60 minute charge, but Mehta said that one of ABB commercially available fast chargers is capable of delivering 350kW of power, enabling a vehicle to gain 200km of range in just 8 minutes. So that Tesla or Nissan Leaf need not take that long to charge. Many of the lessons needed to facilitate that capability are being learnt on the track, as Mercedes and Porsche prepare to join other participating automakers' ranks alongside BMW, Nissan, Audi, Jaguar Land Rover and many others. ABB also directly partners with Jaguar Land Rover to offer bespoke chargers for its I-Pace SUV model, often seen in its own competition at venues ahead of the commence of Formula E proceedings. "However, bringing down charging times is only one facet. Building an electronic infrastructure and charging ecosystem is the bigger challenge. How do you provide so much power when all these cars come into urban usage, (and they are coming), without investing in the infrastructure to facilitate it? It is here that we collaborate to make the power grid smarter; because today the grid – especially in urban settings – is not used to power generation. It is all one way, i.e. transmission to plug. "In the not too distant future, via high performance batteries, it will be a lot of back and forth between generation, consumption and storage, and not just taking people from A to B worrying about battery life. We are way past that point as Formula E demonstrates." Mehta also said he fully subscribes to the theory that many emerging markets will skip phases of the evolving energy mix bypassing interim fossil fuels. "Usage of coal for power generation is likely to remain under pressure with the costs of renewable power generation coming down. "From an automotive standpoint, the question to ask here is – will the range of petrol and diesel engines that we have now even be available 15 years from now? Of course, the 'dieselgate' scandal has helped the cause of electric mobility, but the momentum has always been there and it is something we have noticed for close to a decade of providing charging solutions." Of course, the level of headline sponsorship ABB is providing to Formula E can't be cheap. The company never put a public figure on its multimillion dollar sponsorship and Mehta did not want to touch on it either. "At the end of the day, it's not just about money. Our sponsorship serves two objectives, first off, it is indeed about brand equity and getting our name out there, and we are very satisfied from a cost/benefit perspective on that count. "Secondly, on the high performance charging side we have made significant investment and continue to be the market leader in sustainable mobility. So our sponsorship also has to do with corporate responsibility. It is our duty to bring technology we believe is better for the world, and Formula E is one of the pillars for testing and showcasing what ABB stands for. From my perspective, we are natural allies." 