Update: After an initial report by Vice News on July 23, Forbes confirmed with a source close to the shelter that it is closing as early as this weekend. Read Forbes' story here. An hour away from the U.S.-Mexico border in tiny Carrizo Springs, Texas, is the Studios, a nondescript one-story structure set on 27 acres. Stratton Oilfield Systems, a subsidiary of Stratton Securities, built and opened the Studios in 2012 to house up to 500 out-of-town oilfield workers in the then-booming Eagle Ford Shale area. People stayed at the “man camp,” the term used to describe this and other workforce lodging that popped up to accommodate the temporary oil workers, for a minimum of $29.95 a night. Billed as “superior housing,” the Studios offered daily housekeeping, daily meals, an exercise facility, flat-screen TVs and kitchenettes in all apartments and 24-hour security. It was a good business until it wasn’t. Stratton shut down the man camp in 2016 as oil prices dropped and oil-related work dried up. The complex was deserted for three years. Now the man camp has been turned into a shelter for migrant youth. The federal government leased the space in June and in weeks converted it into a temporary shelter with dorms, classrooms, a dining hall and a soccer field. The shelter, which can hold up to 1,300 minors, reopened its doors on June 30.  Today, 232 children—primarily from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador—stay at the Carrizo Springs temporary influx shelter. Inside their rooms are American flags, drawings and prayers. A handwritten note at the boy’s dorm says, “God bless America. God bless Guatemalteco.” In the adjacent building, a young girl’s sketch of her family is accompanied by these two words: “Los extraño”—“I miss you.” The man who first proposed the idea of temporary housing for migrants in Carrizo Springs is Daniel Stratton, the founder and owner of Stratton Industries. He took a proposal to the town in 2016, the year he had to shut the man camp down, to reopen the Studios as a detention center. Stratton, who has run his company since 1987 with his wife, Shannon, has worked in lease financing for more than 25 years. According to an archive of Stratton’s website, he has secured more than $1 billion in financing for hundreds of commercial, federal, municipal, educational and health care facilities during that time. Among its projects was a 24-month operating lease at Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach, Florida. “[The migrant families] have no criminal backgrounds, rather they are escaping violence,” Stratton, a veteran, argued in a town meeting in 2016. “They’re trying to come to America as many of us did in the past.” Yet the community eventually rejected his proposal. In June, however, Stratton Industries signed a 5-year lease with the federal government for $8.8 million. “There has been zero pushback,” Shannon Stratton told Forbes in a brief phone call. “People just are not as concerned as they were. It’s not a detention center, it’s a shelter. That is a huge difference. It’s a lot more palatable.” Stratton referred additional questions to a representative at the Office of Refugee Resettlement, a division of the Department of Health and Human Services.  “Opening the Carrizo Springs shelter is a prudent step to ensure that [Department of Health and Human Services] is able to meet its responsibility, by law, to provide shelter for [unaccompanied minors] referred to its care by [Homeland Security],” the federal government wrote in a statement on July 1. “HHS is expanding bed capacity to ensure that it can keep pace. Based on the anticipated growth, HHS expects its need for additional bed capacity to continue, despite placing [unaccompanied minors] with sponsors at historically high rates.”  The federal shelter network consists of 168 facilities in 23 states, and it is looking to expand, according to Mark Weber, the spokesperson for the Department of Health and Human Services. The growing need put Carrizo Springs back on the government’s radar. “A lot of the [agricultural] communities tend to shrink over the years for a variety of reasons,” said Thomas Tunstall, a senior research director at the University of Texas at San Antonio. “Communities have vied for prison operations [and detention centers] as a way to create local employment.” Over 50,000 migrant children have been in federal custody since last November—a 60% increase since the previous year, overloading a system that was not equipped to process unaccompanied minors at such a rate. Last month, a border facility in Clint, Texas—which is under the jurisdiction of Customs and Border Protection—came under intense scrutiny after reports revealed that children did not have access to enough water, food and proper sanitation. Another explosive report by NBC News in early July described a dire situation at a border facility in Arizona where children alleged sexual assault and retaliation from border patrol agents, including being forced to sleep on hard concrete.  In the midst of the major backlash, the Carrizo Springs temporary influx shelter opened. While Health and Human Services leased the space, the shelter is being run by San Antonio-based nonprofit BCFS, also known as Baptist Child & Family Services. The organization could be paid up to $308 million through January 31, 2020, based on the current agreement. BCFS employs 747 people at the facility and charges the U.S. government $750 to $800 per child per day, according to its chief executive, Kevin Dinnin. BCFS operated the now-shuttered Tornillo camp for migrant youth, which closed last December following a report by the inspector general of HHS raising concerns about staff background checks and number of clinicians at the facility.  “We are the good guys,” Dinnin tells a group of journalists visiting the shelter. At the time, he is in a dimly lit room with dark blue lights in what the staff refers to as the Incident Command Post of the Carrizo Springs shelter. Behind him is a team of about a dozen, watching the campus via large flat screens that show areas outside the dorms or the main entrance. They also give him updates on “events,” such as protestors that were on site that day. “I hate [this operation] with passion,” says Dinnin, whose salary as president of BCFS was $500,000 in 2017. If it were up to him, he says, he’d “lock the gates as soon as the last child leaves.” “We’ll be happy when we can close it,” concurs Mark Weber, the spokesperson for the Department of Health and Human Services. “We have no desire to accumulate more children.” Despite the heat—temperatures reached a high of 105 degrees on a recent July day —and its isolated location, dozens of protestors have traveled to the Carrizo Springs shelter. “[Nonprofits] are making the same gazillions of money,” says Cat Yuracka, a 65-year-old grandmother who went to the shelter to protest and dons a multicolored “Free Children” bracelet. “Being that far out and in the middle of nowhere, it is by design that we don’t go out there,” she adds. “They don’t want anybody looking.” While it has its critics, some are happy to see the shelter open. There are residents of Carrizo Springs who see it as good for business. On July 4, the only Pizza Hut in town received a rather unprecedented order: 180 pizzas—worth about $3,000—to be delivered to the Studios. “They told us they’re going to keep on ordering from us for the kids,” says Marina Trujillo, the restaurant manager. “They’re bringing in a lot of jobs. They’re bringing business. I know a lot of people from out of town were coming to protest against it. I honestly don’t see anything wrong with it.”  