If you like French and Italian wines, olives, olive oil, Scotch, Irish Whiskey, or European-made cheese, you’d better stock up now, because they may soon get a lot more expensive. President Trump is on the verge of punishing importers of these and myriad other European imports, and by extension American consumers of them, with tariffs of 100%. This is predicated on an expected decision by a World Trade Organization arbitration panel that the United States is entitled to hit the European Union with punitive tariffs, because the E.U. has for years illegally subsidized Airbus, the European commercial aircraft manufacturer. The U.S. argues that the subsidies have given Airbus an unfair advantage over the Boeing Co. (NYSE:BA). A WTO ruling in America’s favor would allow the Trump administration to impose tariffs on not just aircraft and associated parts and equipment, but on all manner of E.U. products. The administration published a list of them on April 12 and another on July 5. The listed products represent about $7 billion in annual imports.    WTO rules allow a member country to impose tariffs “equivalent to the value of the subsidy,” said Steve Charnovitz, a trade law professor at George Washington University. In other words, if the arbitration panel finds that the EU has illegally subsidized Airbus to the tune of $7 billion, as the United States claims, the United States can impose tariffs on $7 billion in E.U. imports. The Trump administration originally estimated the damage to Boeing at $11 billion. “Typically, the U.S. asks for more than they get,” Charnovitz said. The arbitration panel’s decision will be final; it can’t be appealed. Of course, if the tariff on French wine raises its price to more than you want to pay, there are plenty of good American wines you can buy instead. But American vintners will probably raise their prices, too. Why? Because they can. This is what happens when a domestic industry is protected from foreign competition. Olive oil is another matter. If you cook with it – and who doesn’t? – you’re going to get slammed. Only 5% of the olive oil consumed in the United States is made here. Most of the rest comes from Europe. If Trump goes through with his plan to put a 100% tariff on European olive oil, “we’re looking at a dire shortage of olive oil. Prices will go up astronomically,” said Joseph R. Profaci, executive director of the North American Olive Oil Association. In addition to households, this will affect restaurants, which use about 35% of the olive oil consumed in the United States, Profaci said. About 40% of imported olive oil arrives in bulk containers, then is bottled in the United States. If olive oil imports were to stop, all the people who work in the shipment, bottling and domestic distribution of it presumably would lose their jobs. All Scotch comes from Scotland and all Irish Whiskey comes from Ireland. They’re on the U.S. tariff list and their price is going to go through the roof if and when the tariffs take effect. There are certain cheeses that are only made in Europe – brie, camembert, Neufchatel to name a few. The United States imported more than $1 billion worth of cheese from the EU in 2018, according to the Census Bureau. No importer is going to pay a 100% tariff on imported cheese when consumers have access to so many domestic and Canadian cheeses. “The imposition of higher tariffs on cheeses will disrupt existing markets, rob American consumers of the ability to choose or afford the products they want, hurt importers, intermediate participants in the supply chain, retailers, and the thousands of people who work for these diverse operators,” the Cheese Importers of America said in a July 2 letter to its members. Wait, it gets worse. Completely separate from the WTO dispute are Trump’s 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum from the E.U. and elsewhere – not to mention his threat to impose a 25% tariff on European car imports, which his Commerce Department has identified as a potential threat to U.S. national security. This is called coercive diplomacy: give us what we want or else. E.U. officials aren’t taking any of this lying down. They have retaliatory strikes locked and loaded in the event the Trump administration imposes tariffs on all EU imports and/or if it imposes 25% tariffs on European car imports. Needless to say, this multi-faceted conflict dims the prospects for a U.S.-E.U. trade agreement. Trump has refused to lift the 25% tariffs on steel and aluminum or to withdraw his threat to do the same on European car imports. Also, Trump and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker signed a joint declaration that said trade negotiations would be limited to “non-automotive industrial goods,” but Trump has reneged on that and is demanding that agriculture be included as well. EU Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom has said repeatedly that that was out of the question. The Europeans don’t think the Trump administration is willing to negotiate in good faith, and they’re not willing to negotiate with a gun to their head. Here, then, is another blown opportunity to find common ground with an important trading partner for the benefit of American businesses, workers and farmers, because negotiating civilly and respectfully just isn’t Trump’s style. When the 2020 election campaign gets going in earnest, he may have to explain why he has no trade deal with the E.U., China or Japan, and why Congress still hasn’t ratified the updated NAFTA. He’ll no doubt blame everyone but himself.   