Not just the last fortnight or two, but perhaps going as far back as May, those bullish on the oil price direction have been saying that due attention needs to be paid to the re-emergence of geopolitical risk as a tangible market variable. That month, oil tankers were attacked in the Middle East off Oman's shoreline with the blame being pinned on Iran and its proxies by the U.S. State Department. More attacks followed in a matter of weeks, and last week (20 July) Iran seized a British-flagged Swedish-owned oil tanker Stena Impero in the Strait of Hormuz, after the Brits seized an Iranian one allegedly supplying oil to Syria off the coast of Gibraltar. Much of the undercurrent to the sequence of events is down to the unilateral slapping of economic sanctions on Iran by U.S. President Donald Trump in a bid to rein in its nuclear program by stifling the country's oil exports. Yet, as is well documented in WTI and Brent futures price movements since May – whenever the oil price attempts to hold a $60 per barrel floor for the American benchmark and tries to grasp a $70 floor for the global benchmark – the uptick flatters to deceive. That has given rise to market commentary that some Wall Street analysts are being complacent given the situation in the Middle East, Venezuela's production being in terminal decline, constant issues in Nigeria and Libya, and of course, the recent extension of OPEC/non-OPEC output cuts to the tune of 1.2 million barrels per day (bpd) till March 2020. What's more, gripes from the bulls are accompanied by a barrage of ‘Oil-jumps-on-geopolitical-tension’ type headlines, only for them to be rewritten sometimes even within the same trading session. The complaint is that some Wall Street-ers see rising U.S. crude exports as an adequate market buffer should the situation in the Middle East get out of hand. And amid all the frustration of the bulls, a real gem from RBC Capital Markets on Monday (22 July): "We believe that oil prices have become a broken barometer for gauging the rising pressure in the [Middle East] region and are now much more of a lagging risk indicator." Really, that bad eh? Last time I checked, black gold was still the Middle East's biggest export. Also, apparently a test of whether the "geopolitical risk-ceiling price" for Brent has been lowered from the traditional "$100 per barrel to $80 per barrel" is very much on the horizon. Many such quips and other bullish chagrin, banking on views of an overt emphasis by the bears on the viability (or otherwise) of what's solely afoot stateside, are widely off the mark. First off, supply-side conjecture, including that offered by OPEC, IEA and others, points to a 2.3 million bpd surge in global output based on upticks from Brazil, Norway, Guyana as well as OPEC members UAE and Iraq, over the coming production cycle, and not just the U.S. Square that against the most optimistic 2019 demand growth forecast, by the IEA, of 1.4 million bpd, and you'll find a market in surplus, and the composition of cargoes heading to promising Asian markets getting lighter and sweeter. Secondly, there is an erroneous bullish assumption that Iranian exports are being driven down to zero. Industry monitoring and tracking website TankerTrackers' findings run contrary to such assertions. In fact, it tracked an oil shipment from Iran to China as recently as June 27, well after Trump's sanction waivers had expired. To quote the website’s co-founder Samir Madani: "What we're dealing with is a country well used to finding ways of mitigating the impact of sanctions on it oil exports." Simply put, the Iranians will not be giving up without a fight and the Chinese, miffed as they are with Trump, are unlikely to play ball to the extent the White House would hope they would. Finally, there is near perennial obsession among the market bulls about supply-side issues but not nearly enough glances on demand concerns. But the bears are not nearly as obsessively consumed by concerns over trade wars and demand destruction as some bulls would have you believe. I believe that any settlement of U.S.-China trade tussles is likely to be more bullish for the oil price, than any skirmish in the Middle East. Yet at the same time, fears of a recession in the U.S. and Europe, warned about by many including the IMF, serve to weigh on forward thinking in what currently resembles an oversupplied market in 2019. Ultimately, a $70 per barrel Brent handle is quite likely this year, and will be more down to some sort of amicable resolution of trade affairs between Washington and Beijing. However, barring a highly unlikely all out conflict with Iran – which would be self-defeating for the very clever and powerful clergymen in Tehran who neither need nor want it – copious amounts of bullish joy is not on the horizon. The mundane middle of a price ping-pong between $50-70 per barrel is likely to be the order of the day for both benchmarks this year and in 2020, and next year we could see even lower levels to where we are at the moment depending on macroeconomic permutations. Wall Street traders having a punt on range-bound prices haven’t got it wrong; it's the False Prophets disliking the current market's relative predictability who are erring here. The above commentary is meant to stimulate discussion based on the author’s opinion and analysis. It is not solicitation, recommendation or investment advice to trade oil and gas futures, options or products. Oil and gas markets can be highly volatile and opinions in the sector may change instantaneously and without notice.