Earnings results from the money-center banks have confirmed a trend of declining margins that I noted in my Forbes column on Citigroup's results yesterday. This morning, Wells Fargo reported that its net interest margin fell in the second quarter to 2.82% from the first quarter's 2.91% (and the year-ago figure of 2.93%) and JPMorgan posted a net interest margin of 2.49% versus 2.57% in the year-ago period. Even more tellingly, JPMorgan management cut its guidance for full-year 2019 net interest income to $57.5 billion from its prior guidance of $58 billion. So, while the mainstream financial media focused on Jamie Dimon's bullish comments on the state of the U.S consumer, analysts should have been focusing on the lower profitability implicit in the guidance released by Dimon and his team. I'll take it one step further than Dimon, though, and state that the U.S. banking industry's profitability has peaked for this business cycle. Of course the yield curve was inverted for every day of the second quarter, and that is a major drag against banks that practice the classic "lend long" (a 30-year mortgage, for instance, which is classified as an asset on bank balance sheet) versus "hold short" (your deposits, counted as liabilities for bank, can be removed at any time.) When short rates are higher than long rates—and the yield on the 3-month U.S. Treasury bill is still higher than the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note in today’s trading, albeit by only one basis point—bank profits will suffer. Banks can offset that via volume and other non-depositary businesses, like securities brokerages, but declining NIMs foreshadow declining earnings estimates, as seen in JPMorgan’s lowered guidance. As interest rates are in effect the cost of money, banks are the ultimate price takers. Darren Woods at Exxon has more control over oil prices than Dimon has over the Fed Funds rate. Banks really can only grow as fast as the economy, and when the economy slows (at the margin) profitability should decline. That is exactly what second quarter results from the money center banks have shown us. Yet in spite of those profit pressures, the benchmark XLF Financial Sector Select SPDR has risen 17.3% thus far in 2019. A better measure of the performance of the money center banks is Invesco's KBW Bank ETF, but even that large bank-focused ETF has returned 12.3% thus far in 2019. The issue, really is in terms of stock performance, and, by association, valuation. Wells had a tangible book value per share (TBVPS) of $33.68 at June 30th, a 6.3% increase in 2019, while JPM’s TVBPS has increased 5.5% in 2019 to $59.42 and Citi's has increased 6.0% to 67.64. Of course, much of those per share improvements have been driven by share repurchases. So, the multiples to book value in this group are increasing, just as profit margins are decreasing. With Citi trading at 1.06x tangible book value, Wells trading at 1.36x and JPMorgan trading at an almost incomprehensible 1.94x, I just don’t see any value in this group. I look for a pullback after the Fed cuts rates—a move for which the bond market is currently pricing in a 100% chance—on July 31st. I will be looking to take short positions ahead of that meeting in the aforementioned money-center banks for my new training venture Excelsior Capital Partners.