Futuristic, provoking and detail-orientated briefly sums up the work of brilliant British artist, who goes by the name of Imbue. A contemporary artist, he plays, provokes and prods at themes and well-known icons on the current landscape, cue Coca-Cola-come- Virgin Mary mini sculptures, aimed to shift our thinking patterns. And that is does.    There's a buzz that surrounds his artwork, and unsurprisingly, a loyal following has ensued. Take his mystery prints for example, where the artist releases one every few months, the said print is limited edition and only available for 24 hours. Embrace the art frenzy. Felicity Carter: What is your first memory of art?  Imbue: I think I was always drawn towards creative things. When I was a kid, my parents would give me lego and cardboard boxes and I’d keep myself occupied making things. I remember really wanting a Buzz Lightyear toy so I just made my own version out of cardboard, tinfoil, and paint. Early on in primary school, we were lucky to have a volunteer come in regularly and teach us how to work with clay. I’d make all sorts of things, but one year I made this funny little nativity scene and my Mum still brings it out every Christmas!  FC: Tell us about your background and how you made your way into the art world...  Imbue: Art was the only subject that felt natural and enjoyable to me at school so I stuck with it. Years later I became obsessed with graffiti and street art and that’s when I realized it wasn’t all about oil paintings and the more traditional styles of art. I found it exciting and it felt like there weren’t any rules when it came to street art, which worked for me. The DIY ethos of it meant I could just get involved, I didn’t need to wait for someone’s permission.  I started out making posters and stickers, then some of my work got stocked by a gallery and it went from there. Although some artists might not want to say it, starting to make money from my art was a defining moment for me and when I realized that I could do what I enjoyed for a living.  FC: Which artists past or present have had an impact on you?  Imbue: I love Marc McKee and Ed Templeton, they created the best skateboard graphics from when I was growing up. I didn’t know their names then, at the time I didn’t even understand skateboard decks, stickers and t-shirts were created by artists but they were the coolest thing I’d ever seen!  I think Banksy’s ‘Crude Oils’ was the first exhibition I had chosen to attend, that made me look at art in a new way. Shepard Fairey and Space Invader were artists that I really got into as a teenager, I loved seeing new stuff appearing on the street or seeing it posted online and going to look for it. And before all of this I remember noticing Oker’s work in different locations, there was a random piece on a fence at the back of a field near my house and I remember seeing the same thing on trains and walls in London. At the time it just blew my mind that the same person had moved around and left their mark in that way! Before I even fully understood it, I was fascinated by the concept of seeing a familiar icon or logo repeated.  FC: How would you sum up your aesthetic?  Imbue: I don’t feel that my art follows a set style, I usually have an idea, concept or message and then I decide what the best medium to create that is. I guess that makes my style more varied.  Even though I begin with the idea, the aesthetic and how the finished piece ends up is still ultimately very important to me. Personally, I like art to look refined and well-produced, with a futuristic feel and think this comes through with the less traditional methods I use to make my work these days. FC: There’s a lot of religious iconography in your work, what do you want to communicate?  Imbue: My work comments on religion but I’m not trying to communicate a particular message. I’m definitely not against religion, I’m really fascinated by it. I’m interested in the way religion impacts the world and carries stories across history, communicating messages that people learn from. The way ideas have come together and religions have been formed is amazing to me.  My use of religious iconography also comes from the fact that I like using familiar icons in my work, and religious icons are the original example of this.  FC: What impact are you looking to have on the viewer?  Imbue: I don’t have an agenda but it’s always great to make people think and shift their regular thought pattern. I like all of my work to have meaning or make people question the way they see the world. It’s that idea of making someone do a double-take by creating something familiar to them, but when they look closer it’s not what they thought it was. FC: Who or what has had the biggest impact on your work?  Imbue: I think the big themes like science and religion impact my work. I have type 1 diabetes which has often made me think, if I hadn’t been born in an era of modern science and medicine, I wouldn’t be here! It’s a strange feeling but it has probably made me look at things differently which is a good thing. Diabetics have an interesting relationship with sugar, it’s often thought of as something we can’t have, but there are also times when a diabetic is hypoglycaemic and desperately needs it. This has definitely influenced pieces like the sugared gummy sweet crucifixes and the cola bottle Virgin Mary, and ideas have come to me when I’ve been experiencing low blood sugar (it can make you feel pretty spaced out!) It’s also an exciting time to be an artist because of new and more accessible technology, things like 3D printing and laser cutting. It means I can create art that wouldn’t have been possible before and I find that inspiring.  FC: How has your style evolved? And how do you see it evolving?  Imbue: Most of my work is produced as limited editions and I enjoy refining the process. I obsess over the details, not only when creating the piece but through the packaging and presentation. Recently I’ve started to mix more processes and styles together. My recent “Death & Taxes” sculpture consisted of shredded US Dollars in pressure-cast resin with a 24k gold plated bronze top, in a screen-printed custom wooden crate. Each one came with unique dog tags with the edition number. I enjoy creating pieces which feel well-produced, where the collector gets more than they might have expected.  I introduced my 24 hour Art Club a few years ago and it’s been a great way for me to experiment with new ideas. It’s also important to me to keep my work affordable and accessible. Every few months I produce a mystery print that’s only available for 24 hours, and the amount of prints produced is determined by how many people buy it while it’s available. It’s really fun and has attracted a loyal following, and people enjoy the surprise of only finding out what the print is when they receive it.  I mentioned before about using more technology to create my art, and I’m always experimenting with new ways of creating. It’s because of this I think my style is always evolving and becoming more futuristic. See more and shop the artist at imbuesource.com. 