Despite the rapid growth of renewable energy over the past decade, fossil fuels still dominate global energy consumption -- providing for 85% of global energy needs in 2018, according to BP's recently-released Statistical Review of World Energy. So where do all these hydrocarbons come from? The U.S. and Saudi Arabia, sure, but there are some intriguing insights to be gleaned from a company called 911 Metallurgist, which has pulled together data from more than a dozen sources to created animated maps showing which countries currently produce the most oil, coal, and natural gas. The graphics are consistent with my recent Review series, but they go into more detail by showing the Top 10 in each category, as well as for overall fossil fuel production. By expanding the rankings, some surprises were revealed in each category. (All graphics are used with permission). Oil The U.S. was the world's leading oil producer, which is consistent with my recent article detailing the Review's findings on global oil production and consumption. The biggest surprise for some might be that China is one of the world's Top 5 oil producers, ahead of all Middle Eastern countries except for Saudi Arabia. Natural Gas The U.S. was in first place here as well, consist with my previous report. Canada, China, and Norway were among the countries represented in the Top 10. Coal China is by far the world's leading producer of coal, with 46% of the global total in 2018. I think the biggest surprise in the Top 10 is the presence of Germany, which is widely considered to be one of the world's "greenest" countries. Total Fossil Fuel Production It shouldn't come as a huge surprise, given its top spot in both oil and natural gas production, that the U.S. took the top spot overall. Russia in second place was also not a surprise, but Iran in third place will be a surprise to many. It might also be a surprise that more Middle Eastern countries weren't on the Top 10 list, but that countries like Canada, China, Norway, and Australia were all in the Top 10. Norway is perhaps the biggest surprise, because they only made the Top 10 in one category, coming in at No. 7 in natural gas production. Sources EIA. (2019). Total Petroleum and Other Liquids Production. CIA. (2019). The World Factbook. ENI. (2018). Gas and Renewables Review 2018 Volume 2. B.P (2018). BP Statistical Review of World Energy 2018. Commonwealth of Nations. (2019). Find Oil and Gas expertise in Antigua and Barbuda. GENI. (2019). An Energy Overview of the Republic of Armenia. EIA. (2019). Primary Coal Production. Richie, M. Roser, M. (2019). Fossil Fuels. OPEC. (2019). Conversion Factors. Qatar Petroleum. (2019). Conversion Factors. Kanniah, G. (2019). Fossil Fuels. Golas, P. J, Needham, J. (1999). Science and Civilisation in China. China: Cambridge University Press International Energy Agency. (2014). Key World Energy Statistics.