A recent headline caught my attention: "Flightradar24 recorded more than 225,000 aircraft in a single day for the first time on July 24." My gosh. That's an astounding 156 flights per minute globally in a single day This surely isn't surprising in a rapidly interconnecting world. This can only grow as the capacity to fly is just now arriving for so many: 85% of the global population lives in still developing countries. And rich, jet-setting Westerners have no right to complain: real GDP per capita for the developing world is now at $5,400 and that will rise to $7,800 by 2030, which will still be way below the $55,000 Americans enjoy today.    On average, each American takes two to three flights per year. Thus, as the feedstock for jet fuel (a middle distillate along with diesel and heating oil), oil is truly the basis of globalization. This jump in jet fuel would help replace any oil demand declines in other sectors, such as industry and automobiles. For transport fuel overall, jet fuel is third after oil and diesel, and will maintain more than double the market share that natural gas has by 2040. FYI: oil for transport accounts for nearly 60% of the total 101 million b/d global oil market. In contrast to ground transport, aviation has no large-scale cost-competitive alternatives. Flying is perhaps our most irreplaceable energy-devouring activity. In 2018, "airlines flew nearly 4.5 billion passengers on nearly 45 million flights worldwide. Those are both record-breaking figures." These numbers will soar as human development and interconnectivity continue apace.  More jet fuel is especially locked-in, even with higher oil prices In terms of reaching material scale, electric airplanes, for instance, are decades away (if ever), and less energy dense biofuels are not a serious substitute for the power of petroleum. Currently, the rich OECD nations, despite having just 15% of the global population, account for 55-60% of the jet fuel market. And even for these more saturated markets, a lack of material substitutes means that jet fuel consumption will grow more than other transportation fuels.  China, India, other developing Asia, and the Middle East are all rushing to fly as their middle class ranks continue to swell. Unfortunately, this ongoing boom explains some of the horrific crashes that we have seen in recent years, with inexperienced pilots forced to take to the sky to satisfy quickly mounting demand. Just image the possibilities. For example, despite having four times the population, India has just one-eighth of the air travelers that the U.S. has. If Indians ever fly like Americans do, total number of global passengers would explode 70%. And as you can see from the flight tracker above, Africa, with 1,300 million people, is virtually non-existent in the jet fuel market. As the African nations continue to grow, the potential oil demand is simply staggering: "Let Africans fly." Many airlines will continue to do all that they can to bring cheaper and more practical flights to those with less means. Surely all those on the Democratic stage over the past two nights would agree: the world's less fortunate have the same rights to fly in oil-fueled jets for business and fun as they do. Please follow Jude on Twitter. 