Enterprise Products Partners LP and Chevron CVX +0%  According to various reports, Enterprise and Chevron executed two separate agreements that enabled Enterprise to make its final investment decision : The first deal involves a Chevron commitment to move much of its Permian Basin crude on Enterprise's pipeline network to the ECHO terminal located in Southeast Houston. The second contract involves a long-term commitment by Chevron to support the development of the SPOT facility, although neither company has made the exact details of that commitment publicly available. Regardless of those details, Chevron appears to be pleased with its new partnership with Enterprise. "These agreements support our Permian off-take strategy by providing greater takeaway capacity for our increasing Permian production," Chevron President of Supply & Trading George Wall said, "As our production scales up, we will have the means to get those energy resources to the market."    Enterprise first announced early this year that it was exploring the feasibility for the SPOT facility, and formally filed its permit application with the U.S. Maritime Administration and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in March. Once completed, Enterprise says SPOT will be capable of fully loading VLCCs, the largest class of crude tanker ships, and will be able to facilitate the export of up to 2 million barrels of U.S. crude per day. Given the slowness and complexity of the federal permitting process, the project is several years away from coming to fruition. Still, the progressing of all of these various projects designed to install significant new export capacity along the Texas Gulf Coast are highly encouraging for the future growth of the Permian Basin. As I wrote back in April and everyone is by now likely aware, the pace of growth of production from the Permian is now slowing considerably as the rig count continues to fall and producers implement scaled-down drilling budgets for the second half of 2019. But recent media reports with click-bait headlines declaring the "decline," the "peak," and even the "end" of the Permian are wildly overblown. Since reaching its recent high in December, 2018, the DrillingInfo Daily Rig Count indicates that overall, the industry has now idled about 170 drilling rigs over the last 8 months, a 16% decline. However, despite that decline in active rigs, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) reports that overall domestic crude production has continued to rise, up by 600,000 barrels of oil per day (bopd) during that same period of time. For the year, the EIA still projects that the domestic industry will add about 1 million bopd to the nation's overall production. While that is about half of the increase in production that took place during 2018, it would still represent about an 8% increase during a year of significantly-lower drilling expenditures. That slower pace of growth does not represent a "decline," "peak," or especially an "end" in any meaning of those words. Some of that slowdown in growth is due to the combination of lower crude prices and pressure from investors for increased rates of return. But it is also important to recognize that some of it is also attributable to the lingering shortage of pipeline takeaway capacity out of the Permian region. As the raft of new pipelines and pipeline expansion projects underway begin to come online in the latter months of this year and throughout 2020, that pressure point will be relieved. The limiter on future Permian growth will then depend on how rapidly the various Gulf Coast ports are able to expand their ability to handle larger volumes of exports. These recent announcements by Enterprise, Chevron and Phillips 66, along with the various expansions related to the Port of Corpus Christi provide optimism that that looming bottleneck will be resolved in due time.   