In the global oil and gas sphere, Austria's OMV (VIE:OMV) is a key integrated player battling operating volatility and the evolving energy mix in its own understated way. Beginning its corporate life in July 1956 as the Österreichische Mineralölverwaltung, or 'Austrian Mineral Oil Administration', with a sole refining asset, today's OMV is a very different corporate animal with its near-43% free-float listing on the Vienna Stock Exchange carrying a $16 billion (€14.33 billion) market capitalization. Managing shareholders' expectations and 21st century operational transformation is Rainer Seele, Chief Executive Officer of OMV, armed with a mantra of making his company "the most efficient refiner in Europe" and ushering in "prudent exploration and production (E&P) in a climate of relatively low oil prices." Tall ask it may be, but Seele says he's up for the challenge, in an exclusive interview with your correspondent. Seated in his office with enviable panoramic views of Vienna's architectural magnificence either side of the River Danube, the OMV boss appears at ease in adopting a broad vision to meet the emerging low-carbon challenge and changing nature of consumers' energy demands. Fresh from reporting a 44% increase in second-quarter operating income to $1.1 billion in Q2 2019, from $805 million in the same period last year, the OMV boss notes: "We see the debate about climate change, energy efficiencies and electric mobility (e-mobility) really impacting our business, which is why OMV is switching its refining output more toward jet fuel and petrochemicals, and deploying digital techniques to improve output across our integrated oil and gas portfolio. "The outlook for polyethylene and polypropylene looks good right now. But if we don't invest in recycling, we might get caught out, and I will not risk that." While it has refining assets in Germany and Romania, alongside Austria, change for Seele begins at home right where OMV's corporate journey began – its Schwechat Refinery near Vienna Airport. "We are investing $500 million to 2025 in green technology via which we recycle plastic waste into high quality synthetic crude oil that is subsequently processed at our refinery. This pilot project is being run out of Schwechat and the plant now has a capacity of 80 tons per annum (tpa). Upscaling is already underway and over the medium-term we would like to up the capacity to 200 tpa." The company's portfolio needed investment and upgrading in any case following long periods of underinvestment, Seele says, and his mission since taking over the CEO's chair in July 2015 has been to do so via the adoption of state-of-the-art digital technology. "Advanced automation, data analytics and artificial intelligence, have not only brought cost efficiencies but higher downstream utilization rates of mid-to-high-90%. Such improvements will continue." OMV's latest financials reveal a refinery utilization rate increase from 85% to 97% in 2019; up 14% on an annualized basis. Chemist turned technologist With an educational background in chemistry, Seele places deep value on digitally-enabled throughput increases and downtime reduction. "For instance, in a bygone era, our maintenance shutdown at refineries was around three months. "Following the digitization of all our maintenance activities, plants are now back onstream in four to six weeks. Earlier, the cycle was such that every two to four years we had to go for a major maintenance shutdown in our refineries; now we are talking of six years." The OMV boss says whether you view it as chemist, technologist or economist, it's the sort of cost optimization that "really pays off quickly." "Not only is it good economics, it is also a direct investment in technologies that are going to improve our CO2 footprint. Right now we have over two million tons of CO2 emissions. This will carry a higher price tag given the political landscape, whether via taxation or higher carbon pricing. In our bid to mitigate such incremental cost positions in our portfolio, we don't view optimization as a contradiction to a low-carbon footprint." Upstream prudency in a lower oil price environment Seele believes the industry needs to brace for a "balancing act" with the oil price likely to oscillate between $65-70 per barrel over the next three years, using Brent as a benchmark. "The China-U.S. trade conflict is creating demand uncertainties making it challenging to draw a picture on demand over the short-term. I am in a minority that doesn't see the ongoing Washington-Beijing trade standoff ending anytime soon at a time of heightened global economic uncertainty." The OMV boss forecasts only "low to moderate" oil demand growth. "There might be a time in the not-too-distant-future where we view 1 million-plus barrels per day (bpd) demand growth as brilliant, as I do not see it continuing over the long-term." OMV currently produces just under 500,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (boepd), and encouragingly output costs are down 9% on an annualized basis. Looking ahead, a 600,000 boepd production target by 2020 is pretty much "locked in" with additional production coming onstream in Malaysia and an increase in Russia. In line with many of its peers, the Austrian company is incrementally diverting its attention to natural gas. "If we take a final investment decision (FID) on natural gas development in Romania, we will outperform our strategic target (of 500,000 boepd) perhaps by logging 700,000 boepd. It is changing OMV to a natural gas company. Today 60% of our headline production is natural gas, and we hope to increase that to 70% over the medium term." Seele remains nonplussed with the constant badgering of European energy policy by the White House over the continent's ties to Russia in general and Nord Stream 2 pipeline project in particular. The project, in which OMV is part of a consortium, aims to increase the overall annual capacity of Russian piped gas exports to Europe to 110 billion cubic meters. "European energy industry is not run by kids who need to be lectured. As a mature industry, we understand supply and demand complexities. Russia is our neighbor and that makes a difference to our approach; Europe is not ready to divorce its energy sector from Russia's." While compliant with every U.S. and European Union sanction on the Kremlin following the 2014 Ukraine conflict, Seele says he has "no concerns" about OMV’s participation in Nord Stream 2. "That’s because OMV does not mix politics with economic interest. Over 50 years, every hydrocarbon molecule we have asked of Russia has arrived in the market." Russia isn't the only sticking point, as OMV's oil production in Libya remains a concern given the country's never-ending civil war that began in 2012. The company didn't lift any crude from the war-torn Murzuq and Sirte basins in the first three months of 2019, but production resumed at El Sharara, Libya's largest oilfield, in March. "It feels like an eternity of political instability. However, I am hopeful of average production levels of 35,000 bpd from our operations this year. I don't believe the civil war is going to end anytime soon, so we have to live with it as a company. I deem the impact on our financials to be manageable." Seele adds the focal point of the strife is the control of Tripoli, and not the oilfields. "So we have reasonably reliable production and the infrastructure is in good hands, despite occasional blockages and disruption." On the other side of the world in New Zealand, OMV has come out of the shadows as Shell's minority E&P partner to acquire 30,000 boepd of production, putting it in the firing line of the country's strong environmental lobby groups, who regularly protest against its presence. "Our fresh hydrocarbon prospection plan [of 10 exploration wells] is safe and targeting depths of just 3,000 meters in the Great South Basin with stringent monitoring cognizant of environmental concerns. "We are taking decisions on natural gas plays with a low-carbon premise. Additionally, now as an operator of onstream assets we are supplying gas not just to New Zealand households, but also commercial clients, including a major methanol plant, creating direct jobs as well as those in the supply chain." ‘Co-opetition’, synergies, coffee and e-mobility The energy challenge of the coming decades would involve cooperation, partnerships and healthy competition among his industry peers, according to the OMV boss. That spirit has seen OMV partner not just with oilfield services firms like Schlumberger, but also many of its direct E&P competitors like Aker BP, on finding digital optimization solutions. "Digitization is a major challenge for the industry and we only partner with companies where we see that 1+1 is more than 2 to develop broad spectrum applications ranging from blockchain to advanced analytics. While we partner on the challenge of knowledge management and inventing better solutions, none of us is losing our competitive edge." Away from competition and collaboration resulting in 'co-opetition', OMV has almost familial corporate ties with the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC). Both parties have known each other for 25 years and Abu Dhabi’s International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC) is OMV's second-largest shareholder. "As part of our operational pivot to fast-growing Asian markets, we wanted to build an integrated business in Abu Dhabi. Thanks to our ties in the region, we did so from scratch within a year." On July 31, OMV took a 15% share in ADNOC Refining and in a new trading joint venture, hot on the heels of a memorandum of understanding inked in March. "In the upstream segment, we have farmed in to Satah Al Razboot (SARB) and Umm Lulu offshore ADNOC fields with a 20% stake via a 40-year concession. We currently have 20-25,000 bpd in production, with an upside potential of 43,000 bpd by 2023. The partnership is a win-win situation for OMV and ADNOC because it enhances our capabilities to go into the entire hydrocarbon value chain. "We are going to stretch the dollar as Sultan Ahmed Al-Jaber (CEO of ADNOC) always says, i.e. we are going to invest into margin optimization. We will improve the integrated margin in Abu Dhabi like we do here in Europe, and OMV is gaining marketing expertise into the Asian markets, diversifying our exposure from the European market where 90% of our business is. Do not get me wrong, I like Europe but market growth prospects are rather limited, whereas there is huge potential in Asia." And back home, Seele is re-tuning OMV's Central European fuel retail outposts to be "multi-energy" hubs with the rise of e-mobility. "OMV has no intention of avoiding the big move into e-mobility because it doesn't make sense that we fight for the last drop of diesel to go into European usage. It makes sense that we discover new opportunities. We will benefit from a higher call into European e-mobility infrastructure, as our petrol stations are changing to service stations. "That service goes beyond selling electrons, diesel or petrol; the best margin I make is by selling coffee in my shops. This is an Austrian company you are talking about; we have the best coffee in world – a good preposition for staying longer at our fuel forecourts while charging or filling up your car." In many ways, changes afoot at OMV mirror the journey of its boss, who has changed spheres from chemistry to economics to oil and gas, ultimately requiring the German native to move to Vienna where the avid music, arts and opera lover feels right at home. "I haven't regretted anything and enjoyed every bit of my career, because if you would like to have an interesting business life, be ready for change! Life is a learning process, and at time of great change that's applicable to the corporate life of businesses like OMV too." 