Oil prices have tumbled in the past month well into bear-market territory. The market-opening price for WTI on Thursday was slightly above $52 a barrel. The Brent international benchmark price was just above $57 a barrel. The oil sector is seeing some of the lowest prices since early January and earlier this week hit a six-week low. Analysts are predicting the market will only get worse before it rebounds. I disagree, but first let’s look at what’s driving the bearish sentiments. The big issue is the escalation of the trade war with China. Traders aggressively began selling off oil futures last week after President Donald Trump declared he would impose an additional 10 percent in tariffs on $300 billion worth of Chinese goods starting next month. Beijing responded by devaluing its currency and vowing to halt imports of U.S. agricultural products, which only added to the sell-off.    Escalation of the U.S.-China trade war is reigniting concerns about a global economic slowdown. The bearish sentiment has spilled over into oil markets, where the prevailing notion is that a slowing economy in Asia will cut demand. It’s true that oil demand is vulnerable to economic downturns, but traders have overreacted this time and are ignoring a host of bullish factors in the market. The bottom line is that oil prices should be above $60. For most traders, though, it is difficult to see the forest through the trade war trees at the moment. Historically, global oil demand is pretty resilient. Unless the global economy falls into a full-blown, deep recession -- like the one we saw in 2008 -- oil demand will continue to grow at a fairly robust pace. The International Energy Agency (IEA) revised downward its global demand growth forecast, but it remains at a solid 1.2 million barrels a day for this year. For 2020, the IEA expects the pace of growth to be 1.4 million barrels a day. Annual demand growth of more than 1 million barrels a day is traditionally considered to be by no means weak. Historical correlations show oil demand is not at risk unless global GDP growth drops below 3 percent. At the moment, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) forecasts GDP growth of 3.2 percent in 2019 and picking up to 3.5 percent in 2020. The risks in this forecast are mainly on the downside because of the trade war. But lower oil prices also typically stimulate higher demand. National governments aren’t likely to let their economies slide into recession without using monetary stimulus to pump up economic activity. We’ve already seen the Fed take action by cutting interest rates for the first time since 2008 in late July. Traders are also not adequately taking into account the geopolitical risks to global oil supplies currently at play, including tensions in the Middle East and tough U.S. sanctions on Iran, Venezuela and Russia. Iran continues to play a dangerous game of chicken in the Strait of Hormuz. In response to tough U.S. sanctions, Iran has seized oil tankers in the world’s most important oil chokepoint. Those sanctions have virtually wiped out Tehran’s oil exports in recent months and squeezed Iran’s supply of foreign currency. The showdown between Washington and Tehran has all the makings of stalemate. Iran is unlikely to negotiate with the United States until President Trump eases sanctions, something his administration has vowed not to do until Iran drops its nuclear ambitions. Trump appears to be preparing to wipe out Venezuela’s oil exports, too. The White House issued an executive order earlier this week imposing secondary sanctions on individuals and entities who have done business with Venezuela. The executive order could bar Venezuela from selling crude to non-U.S. third parties, should Washington opt to enforce the rule that way. The same goes for Venezuela’s purchases of diluent -- light oils necessary to blend with Venezuela’s heavy sour crude for refining. It’s unclear whether sanctions will be enforced strictly since this would roil China and Russia, the two counterparties in the Venezuelan oil trade. The net effect is to hasten the decline in Venezuelan output, which now stands at around 700,000 barrels a day. And this could help push crude prices higher -- particularly for heavier grades of oil that are already facing scarcity on the market. OPEC, led by Saudi Arabia, continues to over comply with the cartel’s 1.2 million barrels a day supply cut deal. The production cut deal could translate into more inventory draws in the second half of this year. We are already seeing refining profit margins starting to encourage plants to process more crude. While these moves don’t garner big headlines, they are supportive of higher oil prices. The ongoing trade war may cast a bearish pall over oil markets now, but traders will eventually come around to a broader view of the market that accounts for the risks in global supply and transportation. Not to mention the fundamental supply and demand balances that don’t warrant the current low oil prices. 