Heading into the heart of the tropical storm season, U.S. gasoline supply and demand balances are very comfortable. That said, an active weather season could have significant impacts if storms develop in key geographic areas. Current weather models are showing there’s potential for this Atlantic tropical weather season to become more active over the next few months, which could reveal vulnerabilities across many industries, including fuel production. In particular, the conditions in the Gulf of Mexico and the southeast U.S. are shaping up to be favorable for a more active hurricane season. The model guidance shows warmer than normal water temperatures and reduced wind shear, both of which would be supportive of more storm activity. Also, expected upper air patterns show that Atlantic storms would be favored to continue heading westward instead of recurving out to sea, thereby impacting more of the East Coast and portions of the Gulf of Mexico. With the Gulf and East Coast being more susceptible to potential storms, there could be direct impact on U.S. fuel production. Fortunately, in the Gulf, gasoline inventories are not only above the normal, five-year average, but currently well above the highest inventory level hit over the last five years for the same time period, according to Dominick Chirichella, an industry analyst and director of market insights at DTN (disclosure: this author works for DTN). Looking even more closely at this inventory, Chirichella goes on to explain that total combined stocks of crude oil and refined product are close to 100 million barrels above last year at the same time and 65 million barrels above the normal, five-year average. He notes this is a huge cushion and, when coupled with about 645 million barrels in the U.S. Strategic Petroleum reserve, supply is more than ample. The Gulf Coast is in a more comfortable supply situation than the East Coast and Chirichella expects we should be able to handle the ramifications of any tropical events in the coming months with the existing supply. He adds that because the U.S. remains a major exporter of refined products, the exported product acts as a supply cushion, and portions of that volume can be diverted to required areas within the U.S., if needed. Barring a major, catastrophic tropical event, the current supply situation should offset any long-lasting, upward movement in prices. Chirichella does note that even with this comfortable supply, he’s keeping an eye on gasoline inventories on the East Coast as they are still below normal. He explains that those levels are moving in the direction of normal and are now above the five-year low. Meaning, if a tropical system or two hits the East Coast, is could result in higher levels of price spiking and could last for a while until supplies arrive from other parts of the country or offshore supplies. Real-time weather forecasts and advisories will play a key role in keeping the industry moving forward during what could be a very active end to the tropical storm season, as well as empowering the market with insights to anticipate fluctuations in pricing. 