On July 31, the Federal Reserve cut the federal funds by 25-basis points to a range of 2% to 2¼%, and announced that it ended “quantitative tightening” immediately, two months before the scheduled end. The FOMC gave fuzzy guidance on future cuts, which sets up stock market uncertainties. Wall Street and President Trump want the Fed to be more dovish, but the FOMC wants to recover its independence. There are three more Federal Reserve meetings in 2019: September 18, October 30 and December 11. Additional rate cuts are expected, but Federal Reserve credibility is at stake. The July 31 cut was the first since 2008 and was based on three factors: growth of business fixed investment has been soft; inflation (excluding food and energy) is running below the Fed’s 2% target; and global economic growth has become uncertain. The Fed under the orchestration of Fed Chair Jerome Powell has been flip-flopping, which has questioned FOMC independence and transparency. The Federal Reserve Balance Sheet Remains Bloated Fed Chief Jerome Powell wanted to reduce the balance sheet to $3.5 trillion down from $4.5 trillion so the Fed is $279 billion shy of this objective. The total unwind since the end of September 2017 is $721 billion. For the week ended July 31, the Fed drained $24 billion from the banking system, reducing the balance sheet to $3.779 trillion. What good is transparency when you change plans overnight? To regain independence the Fed needs to reduce transparency. Forget the press conferences. Don’t describe reasons for changes. Just let the Fed Minutes, which occur three weeks after the meeting, explain what they are focusing on. This will reduce stock market volatility and allow corporations to implement business plans without the noise of Federal Reserve flip-flopping. Longer-term rates are too low and low rates fuel asset bubbles and bubbles always pop. Understanding the history of the Federal Reserve I began my career in the financial industry in 1972 as a U.S. Treasury trader in the primary dealer community. I attended private meetings with the New York Federal Reserve, Open Market Trading Desk once or twice a month to discuss the bond market and economic activity. Back then, Fed policy decisions were made in secrecy. Fed policy change announcements occurred 90 days after they were made. Between October 1979 and October 1982, Fed Chair Paul Volcker began setting monetary policy targeting money supply and rate changes were so significant I called his policy “shock and awe.” Once the oil-induced inflation began to normalize, policy shifted back to the federal funds rate. In July 1993, Fed Chair Alan Greenspan targeted the federal funds rate only and the Federal Reserve gradually became transparent when implementing monetary policy. Federal funds rates since the year 2000 The funds rate ended 1999 at 5.5% and on the rise as the Greenspan FOMC was hiking rates to offset the easing money policy that was in place just in case of dislocations in the banking system that might have occurred as the clock struck Y2K. This concern was one of the causes of the “tech bubble” that began to pop in March 2000. By May 2000 the FOMC had raised the funds rate to 6.5%, then changed direction. After the 9/11 terrorists attacks, the funds rate was cut to 3% on September 17, 2001. The subsequent easing moves reached a low of 1% on June 25, 2003. Artificially low rates then fueled the housing bubble. The inflating bubble continued to inflate as the FOMC began a series of 17 consecutive 25 basis point rate hikes beginning on June 20, 2004. The last of these hikes was to 5.25% on June 29, 2006, which was the peak month for home prices. The FOMC thus fueled the housing bubble, then popped the housing bubble. Ben Bernanke became Fed Chair during this string of rate hikes in between 2006 and 2014, when the baton was passed to Janet Yellen. The first Bernanke rate cut was to 4.75% on September 18, 2007. Subsequent rate cuts continued until being pushed to 0% to 0.25% by the Yellen Fed on December 16, 2008, where it overstayed its welcome until December 2015. Fed policy helped inflate and burst several asset bubbles in the new millennium. In addition to the housing bubble, you had the oil-price bubble and the gold bubble. Today, the housing bubble has reinflated and stock averages look like inflating bubbles. Last week former Fed Chairs Volker, Greenspan, Bernanke and Yellen pleaded for central bank independence. This is obviously a justifiable position given President Trump’s recent criticisms. They say that the Fed’s powers are appropriately under scrutiny of Congress. In my opinion, Congress should review and change the Fed guidelines given the fact that quantitative easing and zero percent rates and inflation excluding food and energy do not make sense. Now we have a huge global debt bubble and current Fed guidelines will cause these bubbles to pop. Fed policy should be directed to the needs of Main Street USA, not politicians or Wall Street. Low interest rates do not help savors who have $7.7 trillion in FDIC insured deposits in the banking systems. The cost of living is a more important measure of inflation. Families have been paying more at the gas pump and more on food in the supermarket. Homeowners are paying more in property taxes and home insurance. The bottom line is that the economy depends more on consumer spending, which is 70% of the economy. This includes the needs of small businesses. The Fed should switch away from the needs of Wall Street and Congress.