For investors, it seems like Christmas has come every day this year, as equity indices are near all-time highs and the United States is enjoying its longest economic expansion on record, going as far back as 1854. Not surprisingly, much of this expansion is due to consumer spending, which represents about two-thirds of U.S. gross domestic product (GDP). After taking a first-quarter pause due to concerns about the trade war with China and lingering trauma from the sharp market sell-off in the fourth quarter of last year, recent signs suggest that consumer spending is back on the upswing and will be a positive contributor to second-quarter GDP. Despite the soft business environment, this consumer strength should keep the Fed from cutting rates aggressively beyond the July meeting. Spending Power Consumer spending is an important component of GDP. It represents what households buy to meet everyday needs and includes both goods, such as groceries, furniture and automobiles, and services, such as health care and legal advice. As data from the Federal Reserve shows, consumer spending represents a sizable and growing component of U.S. GDP. After providing significant impetus to the current economic expansion in recent years, consumer spending fell to a 0.9% annual pace in the first quarter of 2019, marking the lowest level in a year and a sharp drop from previous readings. Clearly, the ongoing trade war with China, concerns about the Fed raising rates in December and the associated higher borrowing costs, and the shock of the severe market sell-off at the end of the year weighed on consumers and their spending decisions.    When we hit the second quarter, it was as if giddy consumers had woken up on Christmas morning and decided to spend. The combination of stock market strength, progress on trade talks with China, and a labor market that remained steady in employment rates helped spur consumer confidence. Furthermore, we saw both energy prices and interest rates decline in the second quarter. Both of these decreases led to lower costs for consumers and more spending power. Consumers Are Back Couple market confidence and lower costs with rising year-over-year wage growth, and it’s no surprise that retail sales surged in the last two months of the second quarter. In fact, for the second quarter, overall sales in the “control group” retail subset — an important sales measure that excludes volatile segments such as food services, car dealers, building-materials stores and gas stations — jumped an annualized 7.5%. This was the strongest quarterly performance since the last months of 2005 heading into Christmas. Notwithstanding a first-quarter pause, clearly, the consumer is back. The ramifications are evident. The weak consumer spending reading and subsequent rebound suggest that the consumer will be a strong contributor to second-quarter GDP. In fact, current estimates (as of July 19, 2019) suggest that consumer spending will contribute 2.84 points to the second-quarter GDP growth estimate of 1.6%.  The Fed’s Rate Cut Despite the weakness on the business side of the economy, especially in manufacturing, the strong pickup in retail sales and consumer spending, along with a subdued inflation environment, suggest that the Federal Reserve may not reduce interest rates significantly beyond the July cut. With interest rates still fairly low relative to history and the record-high national debt unlikely to help foster fiscal spending if signs of an economic slowdown materialize, the Fed is likely to err on the side of caution with interest rate policy. While Fed fund futures suggest a strong possibility of three to four 25-basis-point rate cuts by Christmas this year, the recent improvement in consumer spending leads us to believe that the Fed futures market is a little too aggressive. Where We Could Be Wrong While we remain optimistic about a trade war resolution between the United States and China, the increased rhetoric between the two nations bears watching. With a pause in the negotiations, President Trump tweeted on August 1 that the U.S. will impose a 10% tariff on $300 billion of goods imported from China on September 1. Since the September effective date is about when U.S. companies bring shipments in for the holidays, most of these Chinese exports are likely to be consumer goods. Since we anticipate these companies passing on higher tariffs to the consumer, this creates an artificial tax on the consumer. This could pressure consumer spending. However, with that said, one positive for the consumer is that trade war-related weakness in the global economy has pressured oil prices and, subsequently, the price we pay for gas. While a decline in gas prices is not enough to fully mitigate the higher tariff prices passed onto the consumer, it should soften the blow. The information provided here is not investment, tax or financial advice. You should consult with a licensed professional for advice concerning your specific situation. 