5. India—Right now India only imports between 4.5 and 5 million barrels per day of oil, but it is shaping up to be the biggest competitive space for producers. India is the third largest oil consumer in the world. Previously, the biggest competition ground for oil producers was for sales to China, but with 1.37 billion people, India has the potential to impact the market much like China has. 4. Saudi Arabia—This Arab Gulf nation owns the world’s most profitable (oil) company, houses the second largest proven oil reserves in the world, and has the most spare capacity of any country. Oil from Saudi Arabia fuels much of east Asia, often through refinery partnerships between Aramco and local firms. Aramco is also expanding its exports to India to compensate for lost Iranian oil. Aramco also owns the largest refinery in the U.S., and it is looking to expand its downstream operations in the U.S. 3. Russia—Russia can produce in excess of 10 million barrels per day, or one tenth of the world’s oil production. Most importantly, Russia has made itself even more important to OPEC decision making than Saudi Arabia. Russia is not a member of OPEC, but as the vital piece in the OPEC and Non-OPEC Declaration of Cooperation, OPEC now finds itself waiting for Russian approval before it makes production decisions. 2. China—This country is the second largest consumer of oil and is the largest oil importer in the world at around 10.64 million barrels per day. That alone makes it a major determinant of where the oil market is going. It is often Saudi Aramco’s largest customer on a monthly basis. China is such an important oil consumer that any indication that economic growth in China is slowing or could possibly slow in the future sends oil prices tumbling. The biggest factor in the oil markets today is the progress—or lack thereof—in US-China trade talks. As half of that negotiation, China’s actions have a huge immediate impact on oil prices. 1. United States – Strong production in the United States is a driving force behind low oil prices and has been since 2014. The U.S. is currently producing oil at record levels (12.3 million barrels per day according to the EIA). This is being driven by the shale oil industry, but how long can shale keep up this rate of production? Many fracking companies are still not profitable. Will their financiers back out if oil prices stay low and profits don’t materialize, or will the recent consolidation of shale industry mean the big players will keep pumping? Also, driving the current low prices over the last year are the contentious trade negotiations between the U.S. and China. The U.S. also has shown its ability to impact other countries’ oil business, as it has almost shut down Iran’s exports in recent months. Finally, President Trump has proven he can move the oil market fairly drastically in the very short term with just a statement or a tweet. 