I was very pleased with the reaction to my Forbes article of August 14th. I published that column on the first day the yield curve (as measured by the spread between the yield on the 2-Year U.S. Treasury note and the 10-year U.S. Treasury note) inverted in 12 years. Well, the yield curve is inverted again today (as of this writing the 10-year is yielding 1.54% and the 2-year is yielding 1.55%,) but that is being overlooked by the equity markets given their fascination with the tweets from America’s Commander-in-Chief. The second time an economic phenomenon occurs is, of course, going to have less shock value than the first, but the impacts of the inverted yield curve are just as deleterious as when I enumerated them in my earlier Forbes article. If a first-in-twelve years occurrence does not scare you, I could throw out a data point that is at a level not seen in 27 years. That would truly be a generational event, but it is not quite the case. The data point I'm referencing is the U.S. Census Bureau's mellifluously-named data series: Merchant Wholesalers, Except Manufacturers' Sales Branches and Offices Sales: Durable Goods Inventories/Sales Ratio That data series measures the slack in the system, i.e., the excess goods that are being held at middlemen between producers and end users. I believe the wholesalers are the most important channel to check. As a long-time auto analyst, I can tell you that inventory at manufacturing plants themselves is difficult to measure and can be very misleading based on timing of shipments. Also, as an Amazon Prime member, I can tell you that inventory levels at the end users, the retailers, is misleading as those economic participants are facing a secular decline. So, it is in the middle of the goods distribution system where the slack builds, and with a reading of 1.76 as of June (the most recent data point,) the durable goods/sales ratio is at the highest level since June 2009. If you threw out the time period from October 2008 to June 2009—now known as the Great Financial Crisis—June 2019's durable goods inventory/sales ratio reading would be the highest figure recorded since January 1992. That's a problem. While durable goods aren't as liable to overnight delivery as the smaller consumer goods in which Amazon specializes, there has been a move to just-in-time delivery of heavier goods, as well. This was certainly apparent in the decline in the durable goods inventory/sales ratio from 1992-2004, and, really, barring the Crisis time, that figure hadn’t materially increased until January 2015. So, the U.S. economy saw a marked slowdown in 2016 highlighted by massive declines in commodity prices, including crude oil prices hitting an almost incomprehensible $26/barrel in February 2016. That slowdown was reversed by the momentum from President's Trump's election in 2016 and a fierce round of liquidity releases by the world’s central banks, led by the ECB's Mario Draghi in March 2016. That cascade of easy money put an end to the durable goods inventory/sales ratio increase, and the numbers had been steadily declining until April 2018. Again though, just as in the beginning of 2016, we have seen a marked jump in the inventory sales/ratio in recent periods. That jump, as I mentioned, has driven the durable goods inventory/sales ratio itself to levels not seen in this economic cycle. At the risk of being accused of cherry-picking one data series that appears quite negative in an effort to bolster my bearish call on stocks, I would point skeptics to a very relevant stock sector. Shares of companies in the industrial distribution sector have been absolutely ravaged in the past 10 months just as the durable goods inventory/sales ratio has been increasing. That's a rational response to a slowing domestic economy and the trade tensions caused by the friction between the Trump and Xi administrations. The equity markets are efficient, so if we can forget about Amazon and Facebook for a minute and focus on companies that warehouse and distribute goods, we some terrible stock price performances. The biggest name in that sector is W.W. Grainger, which has seen its shares decline 27% in the past 12 months after an incredible run after the 2016 election. Another name I focus on is Genuine Parts, the first company I followed as an analyst on the sell-side more than 20 years ago. I own Genuine Parts shares—and probably always will—but that stock hit a new 52-week low today, and speaking as a shareholder, the 12% decline in GPC shares in the past 12 months has not been a pleasant one. You might know Genuine because of its iconic NAPA auto parts brand, but most NAPA stores are franchised and Genuine really makes its profits on the distribution of parts for autos, industrial equipment and office supplies not the retailing of them. It is those "unseen" parts of the economic system that are showing real signs of stress now. The fact that some of the parts passing through those distribution channels are sourced from China and are now more expensive due to tariffs only exacerbates the problem. So, the inverted yield curve is a macro event that will impact many micro sectors, especially the financial sector, and that is keeping out of the stock market these days, especially bank stocks. Similarly, the marked increase in the durable goods inventory/sales ratio is a macro event that has hammered shares of distribution companies, and I think there is more downside for that sector, as well. Be careful out there. Please do not use Twitter as your only method for gauging the attractiveness of the U.S. stock market.