A mixed bag of interesting news events have been percolating up to the surface for the domestic oil and gas industry this week: A new study blaming the industry for rising methane emissions comes from old and predictable sources. - That would be Cornell University and Prof. Robert Howarth, who conducted the study in question with funding from the anti-fracking Park Foundation. Howarth has a long history of issuing studies containing questionable findings that are damaging to the oil and gas industry. In one famous example from 2011, he teamed with fellow Cornell Prof. Tony Ingraffea (who serves as a peer-reviewer of this latest study) on a report that estimated industry methane leakage rates at 7 to 8 percent. By comparison, the Environmental Defense Fund's own estimate is 2.3 percent, and most other studies , including those conducted for the EPA, come in with results substantially lower than that. In his latest study, Howarth claims to have isolated a chemical factor in recent increases in atmospheric methane that he carefully states may support the notion "that part of the change may instead be associated with emissions from shale-gas and shale-oil development."     EIDClimate points out that, while Howarth's selected peer-reviewers might support his conclusions, other notable members of the scientific community are skeptical: Regardless of the validity of Howarth's latest broadside, the net result is yet another round of negative media coverage of an industry that has had plenty of that already. When taken together with the recent report by Rystad Energy that natural gas flaring in the Permian Basin had reached record levels during June, this latest public relations black eye points up the urgency the industry faces to properly address the flaring and fugitive emissions issues. As I pointed out in a previous piece, this is one of the industry's most damaging ongoing stories, and a true existential threat to its license to operate in the U.S. unless it becomes effectively and publicly resolved. But there is also some good news for natural gas producers. - Both Sempra Energy and Freeport LNG confirmed this week that their LNG export facilities have commenced liquefaction operations. They become the fifth and sixth U.S. LNG export facilities to become operational, joining the two facilities operated by Cheniere Energy (Sabine Pass and Corpus Christi LNG), and facilities operated by Dominion Energy (Cove Point), and Kinder Morgan(Gulf LNG). The Freeport LNG facility is located near Freeport, Texas, about 60 miles south of Houston, and Sempra's facility, Cameron LNG, is located in Hackberry, Louisiana, about 25 miles southwest of Lake Charles. Both facilities anticipate shipping out their first cargoes of LNG later this month. With the NYMEX price for natural gas hovering around $2.20 per Mmbtu, any event that promises to increase demand for the commodity is a welcome development for producers. Some major relief on the pipeline side of things for Permian producers. - EPIC Midstream Holdings announced on August 16 that it has begun shipping Permian Basin crude on its 400,000 barrel per day (bpd) oil pipeline to the Texas Gulf Coast. The pipeline's end-point is at the Moda Midstream export terminal at Ingleside, Texas, which lies across Corpus Christi Bay from the Port of Corpus Christi. EPIC was the second new Permian-related crude pipeline to go into service last week. Trafigura announced on Monday, August 12 that it had begun shipping 300,000 bpd to its oil hub at the Port of Corpus Christi via the Plains All American-operated Cactus II system. The Cactus II system expects to be moving crude at its full capacity of 670,000 bpd at some point in September, as other shippers commence inputs of oil into the line. With those two events, the crude oil takeaway capacity from the Permian Basin just increased by more than 1 million bpd, with much more new capacity from multiple other projects scheduled to come online in the coming 12 months. Thus, the region's long-discussed bottleneck nears a successful resolution. The relieving of the bottleneck is having a positive impact on Permian prices for crude. As Reuters reports, "Midland crude prices firmed this week to as much as 50 cents per barrel above U.S. crude on Thursday, as shippers bid up barrels to fill the new pipelines. A year ago, it had traded around an $18.25 per barrel discount." What a difference ample pipeline capacity can make. In the new 'age of consolidation,' it turns out not everyone is on board with consolidating. - That certainly is the case in a potential deal to combine two service companies, anyway. When Burckhardt Compression, a Swiss-based global provider of compression products, released an announcement on July 9 of its intention to acquire a majority interest in U.S.-based Arkos Field Services, it looked as if another significant bit of industry consolidation was about to take place. After all, Burckhardt already owns 40% of Arkos, and the plan is to add an additional 20% to give it majority control and the right to install its own management team. Burckhardt plans to do that by exercising a "first-call option" it owns as a result of the original partnership agreement executed in 2015. But a week later, Arkos, in a release of its own, made it clear that it has no intention of acceding to Burckhardt's planned takeover. Arkos says that Burckhardt's press release is "misleading," and fails to disclose the fact that Phillip Cannon, who owns 60% of Arkos currently, had filed a suit in 2018 accusing Burckhardt of engaging in "repeated misconduct and ongoing breaches of the Arkos Group LLC agreement in an effort to devalue and takeover Cannon's business." Making this conflict even more interesting, on August 16 Cannon filed a subsequent complaint in Harris County , Texas district court petitioning the court to order the dissolution of the Arkos Group and the issuance of an injunction preventing Burckhardt from exercising its option to acquire the additional 20% interest. Thus, what had appeared on the surface to be just another amicable transaction between two willing parties in the oil and gas industry turns to be something radically different. It sure will be interesting to see how this one turns out. 