The big event of August, the one that was going to move markets, was supposed to be Jay Powell’s remarks at the KC Fed’s annual symposium at Jackson Hole. Turns out, his speech was a non-event! The Powell Non-Event The media made it their purpose, prior to his speech, to spotlight the fact that the FOMC members, the Fed’s rate setting committee, are very divided on the appropriate policy, given the current state of the economy. Indeed, they seemed to emphasize such extreme views as those of Esther George (KC) and Eric Rosengren (Boston), both hawks that don’t believe that the 25 bps reduction at the end of July was called for. Nevertheless, Powell’s remarks made it clear that: a) there are concerns about the slowdown in Europe, in China, in the emerging market space and elsewhere; b) there is concern about the manufacturing sectors both at home and abroad which appear to be slowing due to the tariff wars; and c) these concerns are partially offset by the U.S consumer and the employment markets which look to have remained strong. Because of the latter, he reiterated his position that the Fed was not in an easing cycle, but he did hint that there would likely be a further rate cut (25 bps) at the Fed’s September meetings. While the text of his speech was being parsed on Friday morning, August 23rd, the equity markets had a slightly positive tilt, and there was slight upward pressure on interest rates. Bombshells Then came the bombshells. First, a report from a reliable source indicating China would be playing tit-for-tat and would be imposing tariffs on $75 billion of imports from the U.S. in September. Markets reacted negatively. Trump responded first by “ordering” U.S. companies to leave China (kind of an empty threat since he doesn’t have such powers). But, markets did react more negatively. Finally, markets really tanked when Trump announced that Chinese goods scheduled for a 10% tariff on September 1st and December 15th would actually get a 15% tariff ($300 billion worth of goods) and that the existing 25% tariff ($250 billion of goods) would rise to 30% October 1st.  The DJIA hit its high for the day during Powell’s speech, and fell from there, closing down -623 points, and continued the volatility that was August’s trademark. Interest rates fell hard too.  The Gloom is Overdone! There are those that say, “the gloom regarding the economy is overdone.” And, that could possibly be the case, although the data continue to deteriorate. The reality is that there is already a global recession in trade, and Friday’s antics are only going to make that worse, much worse. There is also a global recession in manufacturing and in capex. Even assuming that a U.S. recession is avoided, we still have ourselves a case of economic stagnation (and a Fed whose FOMC is so divided that they appear to be “deer in the headlights.”) Recession or not, we have the following:   It is naïve to think that the consumer will remain buoyant as companies cut their hiring intentions just as they have already cut their capex spending and even their buybacks. Stay Tuned Still ahead is the ECB’s next step in its march toward owning all of Europe. They made it clear at their last meeting that they are going to launch a huge stimulus campaign in September, likely getting rid of their 33% cap on a single country’s debt in their portfolio, and giving themselves the ability to acquire equities (just like the Bank of Japan which now owns 70% of Japanese stocks!).  The Data   Europe is a mess with political issues now taking the spotlight from the economic ones:   On the economic front: outside the U.S.:     Conclusions The data continue to deteriorate. The Fed appears to be a deer in the headlights. But, no matter. The trade wars just went nuclear. There is nothing the Fed or any central bank can do about that. And, it doesn’t really matter if we get a recession. A slowdown has real impacts on economic activity and financial markets. The other shoe, the ECB, is about to drop. On Friday, the 10-year T-Note yield closed at 1.533%. Likely going lower. 