I hadn't intended to write another ethanol column so soon, but I have been engaged in a lot of debate and discussion over my recent ethanol columns. I think it's worth reiterating some points. Also, a recent decision by the Trump Administration is leading to a strong reaction from ethanol interests. Some of those reactions underscore everything I believe is wrong with the current system we have in place, so I want to address that today. Let me be clear. This column isn't anti-ethanol. However, you might perceive it to be so if you believe federal mandates are the only way to support the ethanol industry. I maintain that it's a terrible and precarious way to support the industry, and that there is an ever-present risk of those mandates vanishing. Instead of being at the mercy of the federal government, the ethanol industry has to become more proactive in growing its markets, especially in the Midwest where they have far more political power than does the oil industry. That's how they will sustain a robust ethanol industry. Sharing the Wealth Imagine that I convinced the federal government to pass a law that requires my next door neighbor to buy a product from me. I argue that he can afford it, because he is wealthy. It will be good for the U.S. economy, I explain, because I will create jobs and prosperity with that money (ignoring the fact that my neighbor may have done the same). You might think that's a ridiculous argument on its face, because my perception of my neighbor's wealth -- and my belief that sharing it with me will be beneficial to the U.S. -- is no justification for demanding he share it with me. I am not, after all, a socialist. But now imagine that the government decided that this situation was creating a hardship for my neighbor, and they reduced the amount of product he is required to buy from me. In response, I scream loudly about this injustice, and this "bailout" to my neighbor. You would rightly tell me to stop relying on my neighbor to "create" my wealth, and to get out into the market and do it myself. How to Create a Cycle of Dependency This was exactly my feeling on reading ethanol industry responses to the Trump Administration's recent decision to exempt a number of small refiners from ethanol blending requirements. To recap, the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) was passed into law with the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (and subsequently expanded in 2007). The RFS established quotas of renewable fuels that had to be blended into the fuel supply, and an enforcement mechanism to ensure those quotas were met. In other words, it required refiners to use an escalating amount of ethanol in gasoline. This law spawned tremendous growth in the ethanol industry, but created a market totally dependent on the federal government. That dependence has been on full display this past week. For refiners, they are forced to blend ethanol into their fuel, or pay a price if they don't. This costs refiners billions of dollars each year, and as a result they staunchly oppose this law. They would still blend some ethanol if they weren't forced to in order to increase the octane of certain gasoline blends, but they don't like being forced to blend a specific amount of ethanol or to pay a price if they don't. As a result, refiners are one of the powerful interests aligned against the ethanol industry. And when you live by federal government mandate (or federal subsidy) -- as the ethanol industry has for decades -- you can die by that same mandate. There are going to be times in which a President isn't going to be sympathetic to your arguments, and will instead side with the other interests. That is what is happening right now. I have warned about this for years, and it's why I think Midwestern state governments should take more aggressive steps to build robust ethanol markets in their area. I have argued this point in a series of articles. The RFS contains a "hardship clause" to protect refineries that process less than 75,000 barrels of oil per day from "disproportionate economic hardship" due to the RFS. These waivers are issued by EPA, and President Trump reportedly personally intervened over the latest batch of requests to approve 31 Small Refinery Exemption (SRE) requests. As you might expect, corn and ethanol interests howled loudly at these exemptions. One of the loudest voices was POET, the world's largest ethanol producer. The company announced that it would be cutting production and jobs as a result of the exemptions. But their response confuses concepts like "bailout" and "demand" in a way that is analogous to the example in the opening paragraphs. POET's Response Epitomizes a Backward Mindset I will quote and address excerpts from their press release: The RFS is a mechanism that creates artificial demand for biofuels. It is a federally-mandated transfer of wealth from refiners to the ethanol industry. Some have characterized it as socialism, where the government is deciding what's best for everyone. At the least, there is no doubt that it is a policy with socialist elements (where the government is dictating production and use). This is why -- as I keep advocating -- the ethanol industry needs to independently grow their ethanol markets so they aren't dependent on the RFS. Allow me to deconstruct this utterly ludicrous paragraph. It's hard for me to understand a line of thinking in which not forcing someone to use as much of your product creates an "artificial cap" on demand. Let me be clear. There is absolutely nothing preventing the ethanol industry from selling as much ethanol as they like -- especially in the Midwest where they have all the political power. Again, it's like me acting utterly helpless when the government lowers the amount of product my neighbor must buy from me. Most people would ask "Why should you be completely dependent on your neighbor for your success? Where is your entrepreneurial spirit?" Further, they throw out the "wealth" argument. Most refiners are not "oil companies." They have to buy the oil they process. If it economically benefits them to buy less oil and blend ethanol, that's exactly what they will do. They are in the business of making money. They actually suffer when oil prices are rising, because it cuts into their refining margins. Valero, for example, is one of the nation's largest refiners. They produce about three times as much fuel as the entire ethanol industry. They even own some ethanol plants to meet their ethanol blending obligations. Last year, they reported $3.1 billion in net income. Yet they also reported over half a billion dollars in ethanol compliance costs, after reporting nearly a billion dollars in ethanol compliance costs the year before. Again, what do you call a system in which we transfer money from a company with perceived wealth to one that we perceive has less wealth? Could I justify getting 30% of my neighbor's wealth because I argue that he is wealthier than I am? Finally: So, not forcing some refiners to blend as much ethanol is a "bailout" to the oil industry? What do we call the RFS then? Regardless of any benefits we might argue, isn't the entire law a bailout to the ethanol industry? This comment is just too much. If my take of my neighbor's wealth is reduced from 30% to 20%, it's apparently a bailout to my neighbor. Conclusions President Trump has been stung by the criticism of his decision, and is trying to think of ways to pacify farmers and ethanol interest. Reportedly: These are exactly the kinds of steps I have been proposing in recent columns. But I maintain that this should be driven at the state level. Federal views on ethanol will shift, but Midwestern views are unlikely to ever change.