Many of us see the headlines about cabin crew and pilots voting to take strike action and we are quick to think of our summer holidays being ruined. Ultimately, the most disruptive of the peak time strikes are usually averted, but they certainly get the airlines’ attention. So who is right? The airlines or the crew and their unions? Ask the 226 passengers on a Ural Airlines flight this week that had to make an emergency landing in a cornfield. Ask them if they think that their crew was overpaid. All 234 passengers and crew ultimately survived.  Flight attendants do far more than serve you chicken or fish. When you need them most, they are trained to save your life. Therefore, at a time when many airlines are making record profits, it doesn’t seem fitting that many flight attendants in the U.S. are living on food stamps.  So let’s take a quick history lesson and delve into United Airlines’ recent past. Unions can be both good and bad, occasionally taking a very anti-business and irrational approach to negotiation, but inevitably they do protect employees.  So what happens when airline bosses and the unions clash? When an airline doesn’t take care of its employees, that reflects through what passengers see, and discontented staff are never good for any company. In the 1980s Richard Ferris took over as CEO of United Airlines and tried to pick a fight with pilots. He inevitably lost, but this didn’t stop his predecessor Stephen Wolf turning the fight to the flight attendants. There seemed to be a growing rhetoric from management that a flight attendant job should be a temporary, minimum wage position. Does that motivate anyone to come into work with a beaming smile?  Doubling down on this, the next United CEO Glenn Tilton declared the airline bankrupt to push through changes. Staff took a forced pay cut of up to 40%, mirrored with longer working hours. For example, on a Boeing 757, flight attendant numbers were cut from five to four. This meant more hours and less pay, but the same amount of passengers. Now this is where the plot thickens. United have entered into Chapter 11 bankruptcy on more than one occasion. It was widely believed that this particular occasion was to largely eliminate employee pensions, whilst senior management actually moved their pensions three months prior. Coincidence at best.  Here’s the real stinger. American Airlines also filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2011. When they filed for bankruptcy protection American Airlines had over $4 billion in cash assets. Worse still, the announcement came just months after the airline placed a gargantuan order for 460 single aisle aircraft in a $38 billion order. Chapter 11 was largely used to plug employees pensions and force substantial wage cuts through. So, what a glamorous job being a flight attendant is. Perusing the aisles of a 747, handing out delicious cocktails, visiting the world’s most sought after destinations and having the whole airport look twice at you strolling through the terminal. That mutual respect between passengers and crew, where the ringing of the call bell is met by a most likely polite request. The golden days of flying. This is of course a flashback to the 1970s and 1980s. These were the days of the now defunct PamAm and TWA to name but a few airlines. Being a United Airlines flight attendant was a dream job. Less competition meant that airlines didn’t cater to the masses and as such, both passengers and crew were afforded luxuries and benefits that are rarely seen in 2019. What happened? In short, airlines began to actually be run like streamlined businesses as consolidation took place in the industry. Shareholders prioritized necessary returns over the glorified days of flying. Almost anything that could go wrong for an airline, did go wrong and so the aviation sector began to protect itself and cut back. Strikes, weather issues, maintenance issues, delays, medical diversions, extensive low-cost competition, oil price volatility. You name it, airlines face it. Richard Branson once famously said: “If you want to be a millionaire, start with a billion dollars and launch a new airline.” The last few years however have seen passenger loads increase and oil prices simultaneously decrease and remain stable from their previous $100 per barrel highs. So why are airline employees still not seeing the benefits of this? Cabin crew deal with a lot, and I mean a lot. Airports and airplanes seem to bring out the very worst in people. Whether that’s increased anxiety or because many passengers are outside of their comfort zones—people often act irrationally when they travel, to put it very politely.  When there is a delay, it’s of course, the flight attendants fault. TV screen broken, flight attendants fault. Ran out of your meal choice? Of course, you guessed it, that must have been the flight attendants fault as well, because they must have also personally stocked the aircraft, right? The flight attendant is the front and face of the airline. Likely an airline that the cabin crew themselves are also disgruntled with. Many major airlines have mistreated crew for years. Piece by piece those at the top have eroded away the trust and loyalty with crew, not to mention well deserved benefits. Hours in the air have increased, layover time decreased, and largely salaries have stayed relatively stagnant. Would you be happy flying six short haul sectors in a day? Screaming children, multiple rude passengers, and an employer that puts shareholders over employees. I certainly wouldn’t.  Airlines from Ryanair to Delta are continuing to reward shareholders with record profits. Does that mean that flight attendants are getting concessions back? Not yet, but perhaps they should. Delta just reported a 31% surge in profits, and despite a fall in profits over at Ryanair, they still raked in over €1 billion in yearly profit. A regional flight attendant in the US can start on a salary as low as $17,000 a year. New crew that join the British Airways "mixed fleet" (a division that has removed many employee benefits) can expect to earn between $19,000 to $25,000 per year, depending on whether you believe the union or the airline’s average number. As a British Airways passenger you may not actually notice crew that are "mixed fleet" (interestingly they are the only BA crew to wear hats as a distinguishing feature). However, flight attendants themselves will certainly notice the difference in the form of contracts that favour the airline versus flight attendants that were hired pre-2010.  The crux of the problem here is that airlines have torn up the rule book and are hiring new employees on different contracts to reduce overall pay and benefits. In the US, passengers may think they are flying on Delta or American Airlines for example, but very often these major carriers operate multiple regional carriers under their name brand. This allows them to break up union power and enforce different and progressively weaker employee contracts by fragmenting their workforce into multiple different airlines. This also largely allows the airline to abstain from responsibility, often turning round and blaming isolated incidents on a rogue regional oporator. The outlook will only change when airlines get a CEO that has the interests of crew on a par with those of shareholders. In any business, if your employees are happy, then that reflects in what your users, and in this case, passengers experience. With satisfaction ratings of major airlines seemingly on the decline, and the powerful tool of social media being able to point out when airlines get it so drastically wrong, perhaps it’s about time that airlines focussed a little more on their staff's wellbeing, and in turn, their passenger's satisfaction. The next time you think that flight attendants are living the dream, ask yourself if you like to be dealing with a grumpy version of yourself on four return sectors between London and Edinburgh, on an airline that toasts their ever increasing profits but fails to progressively reward staff. Almost comically, Frontier Airlines encourage passengers to tip crew members now which sends entirely the wrong message. Flight attendants are not waiters. They are trained to keep passengers safe and rightly so demand a stable and regular wage for that. Airlines should appreciate the important roles their staff have and reward them for that, even if it costs them more from the bottom line of what is currently record profits.  