[My comments are in italics] Berkeley moves to ban natural gas hookups in new housing. “Mayor Jesse Arreguín called the ordinance innovative and groundbreaking.” More appropriate to say its anti-groundbreaking, since it will raise housing costs. Non-natalists argue against having children. “…he is certain about one thing - humans should not have babies, and our species should gradually go extinct.” You first. Saving the planet by giving up meat. A PETA official: “We may not be able to put a stop to the fossil-fuel industry or give up our cars completely, but each and every one of us can go vegan right here, right now.” Or, as Marie Antoinette would say, “Let them eat organic vegan cake.” “But the mere suggestion from critics on the right that the Green New Deal would require restrictions on eating hamburgers (not without cause) and flying provoked howls from environmentalists, who insisted that such claims were just standard conservative smear tactics.” See previous entry. Keep fossil fuels in the ground: “…we must refrain from burning much of the fossil fuel reserves currently listed as assets on the balance sheets of energy companies.” Says Lee Wasserman, in a New York Times op-ed delivered to my house by automobile. “A National Grid spokesperson said the generator issues had caused “loss of power in selected UK areas”. They described the event as “unexpected and unusual”…EnAppSys, an energy consultancy, said the blackout may have been caused by the unexpected shutdowns of the Hornsea offshore wind farm, which is owned by the Danish wind farm company Orsted, and the Little Barford gas-fired power plant, owned by German utility giant RWE.” Who knew wind power wasn’t reliable? Greenpeace consultant: “Sabotaging nuclear is a vital part of any successful attempt to save the climate.” After all, whale oil is a renewable resource, we can use that instead. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez: “But government projects are often financed by a combination of taxes, deficit spending and other kinds of investments - you know, bonds and so on.” Thank you, President Maduro. Canadian pipeline protesters: “Why would our Indigenous people invest in an economy when it’s not about Mother Earth, when it’s not about our water or our children,” one speaker asked the crowd to cheers and pounding drums. “I want to invest in our well-being and ensure there is a future for all humankind.” So, deforestation? “In a letter sent to congressional lawmakers and signed by more than 900 solar companies, the Solar Energy Industries Association argued that the 30% tax credit for solar energy systems should be preserved because it has helped generate $140 billion in investment. The subsidy has also created more than 200,000 jobs even though solar energy accounts for only a little more than 2% of U.S. electricity generation, the letter said.” Poor labor productivity will make us Number One! “Plunging prices for batteries and renewables are driving an electric vehicle (EV) revolution so rapidly that the economics of oil ‘are now in relentless and irreversible decline.’ That’s the startling conclusion of a detailed new analysis for “professional investors” of the economics of EVs versus gasoline cars produced by BNP Paribas, the world’s eighth largest bank by total assets.” Says Joe Romm, who is famous for saying in 2009 “I wasn’t going to post on this since I have blogged endlessly on the painfully obvious reality that we are at or near the peak (see “Peak Oil? Bring it on!”).” (He was posting on the foolishness of your humble narrator for suggesting in a New York Times op-ed that “Peak Oil Is a Waste of Energy”. And he supported that argument with research from another bank, Merrill Lynch, which said “Non-OPEC production has likely peaked, oil output could fall by 30 million bpd by 2015”) Dueling Headlines: “Make Way for Self-Driving Cars” New York Times 8/2/19 and “For Self-Driving Cars, no green light soon” New York Times 7/21/19. 