Energy traders eagerly anticipate the release of the Baker Hughes rig count data each Friday at 1PM. The number of rigs in action has been a reliable indicator of future oil and natural production growth in the U.S. and is also what economists would call a "coincident indicator" for the U.S. economy. In real-time the Baker Hughes data give a forecast for the level of near-term capital spending from the major U.S. producers, certainly a driver for the U.S. economy. So, this Friday’s data, which indicated a 16-rig drop in U.S. land-based oil drilling, was quite sobering. The rig count is now down more than 10% from its level of one year ago. Crucially, the rig count in West Texas' Permian Basin led the weeks decline and also sits more than 10% below year-ago levels. Stocks of both energy producers (E&Ps) and services companies have been absolutely walloped this year. The main E&P ETF, XOP, and the largest services ETF, OIH, have both fallen 23% year to date. So, you may not own these stocks, or even have any interest in doing so in the future, but you should realize that the energy industry is systemically important the to United States economy. The EIA's petroleum status report showed that U.S. oil production totaled 12.3 million barrels per day (mmbpd) last week. That level of output is relatively flat with recent periods, but a full 1.3 mmbpd higher than the year-ago period. That higher level of production necessarily has supported a higher level of employment. Looking at the rig count data, though, the economic outlook of the average U.S. oil man is clearly not as strong today as it was one year ago today. I think the energy industry was too optimistic heading into 2019, and the easiest way to cure such an overshoot is to run fewer rigs. That's what we are seeing in the data. One must never forget that E&Ps are the ultimate price-takers. E&P executives’ forecasts on the commodity price will drive production decisions in the short-term, but in the longer-term the price will determine how much incremental production is added. So, with West Texas Intermediate crude prices quoted at $53.50 per barrel in the midst of today’s rout in the equity markets, some caution is prudent on the part of oil producers. Obviously oil prices are driven by macroeconomic and political factors that occur far from West Texas, but the confluence of all those factors has been pointing down. An economist would tell you that is because there is fear of the loss of the incremental consumer of oil. The incremental producer—the swing producer in industry parlance—is usually Saudi Arabia, due to that country’s ridiculously low lifting costs. But the identity of the incremental consumer is just as easy to divine by tracking oil tanker movements. It's China. Commodity markets, just like equity markets, are forward-looking discounting mechanisms. So, while official government data showed Chinese oil imports increased by 14% year-on-year on July, the global oil markets are telling us that future Chinese oil demand is in question. The Chinese economy has slowed dramatically recently, and commodity markets, whether for copper, coal or oil, have all declined dramatically in the past six weeks. The commodity markets are flashing red signals for the health of the Chinese economy in the second half of 2019. Obviously signs that the trade war is increasing, not decreasing, in intensity—as shown by President Trump’s tweets earlier today—can only make the economic situation in the Middle Kingdom worse. The issue, of course, is that economic conflict impacts economies that service China via exports, which is basically every economy in the world. So, a slowdown in China can hurt demand for roughnecks on West Texas oil rigs. With U.S. unemployment running at or near a 50-year low, that impact is muted on the current-period U.S. economic data, but it will be felt in future periods. The next move, the second derivative if you will, for the rate of global economic growth is down. The bond markets have been telling us that for the entire summer, and I don’t think 2019's glorious bond market rally is anywhere near a conclusion. Slower global growth is obviously a net negative for stocks, especially tech stocks, and I think the market is realizing that as the Nasdaq plunges more than 2% in Friday trading. Even seemingly banal indicators like the Baker Hughes rig count can be enormously important to the economic landscape. Ignore the numbers at your peril.