Banksy, the international media sensation who has turned graffiti into fine art, will see one of his first major works — emblazoned on a 17-ton truck — go up for auction the middle of this month at Bonhams Goodwood Revival sale in Britain. The truck-work is entitled Turbo Zone Truck (Laugh Now But One Day We’ll Be In Charge), and that title represents the story arc of the artist who painted it. Back in 2000 when commissioned by Mojo, the co-founder of Turbozone International Circus, to decorate the troupe’s transport vehicle Banksy was a largely unknown graffiti artist, and he immediately went to work to cover the Volvo FL6 box truck with his signature style. The dominant image on the truck’s panels is the silhouette of a male figure swinging a hammer at metal gears, depicting the desire to throw a wrench in the industrial era’s establishment. In the background flying monkeys and red stars run riotous. “Circus” is lettered across the rear of the truck, apropos since the truck was intended to support a circus. More menacing is another image featuring soldiers running away from a cannon. The images were created by an obscure artist working in a branch of art that often gets little respect. Interestingly, over the course of the ensuing 20 years Banksy rose from that position into a place of honor among contemporary artists. After a well-received London show in 2005, Banksy’s career really began to gain momentum with the “Barely Legal” exposition in Los Angeles in 2006. Attended by movie stars Brad Pitt, Angelina Jolie, Dennis Hopper and Cameron Diaz, the avant garde exhibition included an Indian elephant painted red and gold in a corner of the gallery, which the guests were asked “not to talk about.” One has to appreciate the cheekiness of asking a star-studded attendee list not to talk about the elephant in the room. The “Crude Oils” exhibition in London the previous year also featured animals, in its case 164 black rats that were released in the gallery. Black rats have since become a Banksy signature, and his studio is called Pest Control. Since the Banksy art-truck is being auctioned off at the automobile-oriented Goodwood Revival auction, we asked Ralph Taylor, Bonhams global head of post-war & contemporary art, is the Banksy truck considered a vehicle sale or an art sale? “An art sale without question,” he told us. “The Volvo truck is purely the canvas upon which the artwork has been painted.” It is certainly a big canvas. The truck is 33 feet long, 8 feet wide, and 12 feet high. It is also well-travelled. After the artist concluded his work, the truck spent the next several years crisscrossing Europe and venturing as far away as South America as part of Turbozone’s critically acclaimed Cinderella show. The truck art was also featured in Banksy’s book, Wall and Piece, published by Century in 2006. We also asked Taylor how does one go about appraising the value of art on a large object like a vehicle? “There are precedents,” he said. “Bonhams offered a S.W.A.T. van painted by Banksy at auction in 2016. The criteria are often the same when appraising any artwork. How significant is the artist? How central is the work to the artist’s oeuvre? Is it rare? What is the supply-demand dynamic? What is the comparable market rate?” The S.W.A.T. van, which was created specifically for the Los Angeles “Barely Legal” exhibition, was sold at Bonhams Post-War & Contemporary Art sale in June 2016, for $300,000. Bonhams also sold the painting “Laugh Now But One Day We’ll Be In Charge,” (not to be confused with the similarly titled truck art) for $354,000. It takes a special collector to purchase a 17-ton truck and put it on display to best advantage. “There are many collectors who have private institutions where they display works in their personal collections,” Taylor said. “Clearly the scale of the truck requires space and ambition which would suggest a certain type of collector.” Bonhams said it expects to see a winning bid of $1.3 - 2.0-million for the piece, reflecting the work’s importance. It will be offered at Bonhams motor car auction, the Goodwood Revival Sale, Goodwood, Chichester, Sussex on Saturday, September 14 at 1 pm local time.