With regional production of 487,117 metric tons per year on a harvested area of 171,593 hectares, cassava— the fifth most important crop in the world— has a production base in every Caribbean country; yet growing the sector continues to be a highly recognized but under-capitalized opportunity. The strategic viability of a cassava-driven development plan is without question. Global cassava production outperforms most other staple crops, exceeding world population growth and registering an average annual growth rate of almost 4%. In the Caribbean, the crop holds a great deal of potential. The Food and Agriculture Organization confirms that cassava is “an appropriate target for meeting goals of food security, equity, poverty alleviation, and environmental protection.”    The benefits are as follows:  Food Security The Caribbean’s food import bill is expected to increase to US$8-10 billion by 2020, and according to the Food and Agriculture Organization, cassava can reduce this figure by at least 5%. Cassava creates an import replacement opportunity for various food items including vegetarian meat alternatives, wheat flour, beer and animal feed. The market is certainly there— the region currently imports nearly 900,000 metric tons of wheat for flour, 420,000 metric tons of corn for feed and nearly 100,000 tons of malt per year. Vegan chef, Taymer Mason, who is based in Barbados, uses cassava as the key ingredient in her True Root Meat. In Jamaica, Red Stripe, via its Project Grow initiative, has partnered with local cassava farmers to replace imported high-fructose corn syrup in its Red Stripe beers and is processing 100 tons per day at its cassava processing facility. Nutrition In the Caribbean, nearly 4 million children under the age of 5 are either overweight or obese and according to the Healthy Caribbean Coalition, only 8 of 20 CARICOM countries are on course to meet the World Health Organisation’s target of a 25% reduction in premature non-communicable disease mortality by 2025. Cassava currently represents more than 2% of the world’s total caloric intake and in the tropics, it is the fourth most important source of energy (FAO). Cassava flour is a rich source of starch, which is the main source for carbohydrates and dietary fibre. The leaves contain flavonoids, saponins, essential oils, vitamin B17, vitamin C, phosphate, calcium, folic acid, chlorophyll, and magnesium, and are effective reducers of cholesterol, inflammation and infection. The cassava industry is strategically poised to target these populations and reverse these trends.  Climate Resilience Cassava is a climate-smart crop. The plants are highly tolerant to poor growing conditions and can be cultivated in regions that suffer from poor soil, drought, floods and plant diseases. It can grow in conditions where annual rainfall is as low as 500mm or as high as 5,000mm and under the most extreme negative conditions it can still yield about 13 metric tons of tubers per hectare. Cassava production also has a lower carbon footprint than the production of other foods. Plant-based foods generate 10x fewer greenhouse gas emissions than producing similar beef-based products (Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology). Trade and Economic Development The diversity of uses and processing methods for cassava allow it to be used to achieve a variety of economic goals. As the second largest source of starch worldwide, with an annual output of between 5 and 6 million tonnes, the starch is used in the agrifoods industry, as a binding agent in food & beverages applications, to produce paper, textiles and bioplastics and to treat water. According to the results of an FAO cost-benefit analysis applied to evaluate cassava production models in Barbados, when cassava yields are increased up to 28 metric tons/hectare and higher, returns and generated value can be exponential. (2016) The global $12.9 billion plant-based food market provides a massive opportunity for cassava-based food products. The Barbados Agricultural Development and Management Corporation has achieved great success with its locally-produced cassava foods, including flour, bread, cake and porridge mixes, and “cassava colada” sorbet, which retail under the “Carmeta’s” brand name. In Jamaica, local agro processors manufacture cassava products such as bammy, pancake mix, cassava chips and bammy Sticks. Supermarkets in Barbados, Grenada and Trinidad and Tobago sell locally-made sliced bread made from 40% cassava. A St. Lucian café has made a name for itself in the field of “cassava food and experiences.” Plas Kassav, a family-run roadside bakery in Canaries is a haven for fresh-baked organic bread and cassava cakes and offers regular tours of their factory. There is a gaping opportunity for trade in the form of fresh root from the region. In 2013, approximately 17,369,600kg of cassava root was produced in Jamaica, yet during the same period, less than 1% was exported. The cassava sector also provides opportunities for rural livelihoods. Red Stripe Jamaica’s Managing Director, Ricardo Nuncio, has announced that the beer manufacturer has signed contracts with 131 farmers for a total of 1,700 acres.  Energy According to researchers from the University of KwaZulu-Natal, “cassava biomass potentially offers multiple benefits for producing bioenergy such as biogas.” In 2008, the proportion of Chinese cassava going to ethanol jumped from 10% to 52% and according to the book, “Cassava” by Viduranga Waisundara, “the energy recovered from cassava peeling residues could satisfy up to 100% of national energy requirements.” Herein lies an opportunity for energy security in poor countries threatened by soaring oil prices. So what's the deal? With so many benefits associated with increases in production, what is preventing local governments from turning all of these cassava dreams into reality? Statistics don’t lie. The production of cassava in CARICOM represents only 0.21%, of global production figures with average yields that were 59.6 % lower than the global average between 2000-2009. (FAO) Perhaps it is a figment of culture. Cassava was once regarded as a poor man’s food, a phenomenon that has contributed to a lack of awareness of its uses and preparations. A survey conducted at St. Lucia’s 2018 Cassava & Seafood Festival showed that many St. Lucians are unaware of how to prepare and treat cassava. The Department of Agriculture responded by developing a cookbook, highlighting the various ways of preparing, treating and using raw cassava and cassava products. From the perspective of production and trade, the development of refined and scalable products requires capital— resource constraints have resulted in limited public-sector support to cassava industry development. Production costs must be closely managed and constant supply of fresh cassava roots at competitive prices must be maintained. It is only through the strategic development of the Caribbean cassava value chain that the potential of cassava to create employment growth, rural development, food and energy security, enhanced climate resilience and healthier communities can be realised. 