Indications are that Saudi Aramco will finally launch a public listing in the next few months, likely at the beginning of 2020. This brings much speculation and excited news in the business media about where Saudi Arabia may choose to list the company, what banks may underwrite the listing, and when the IPO may finally happen. But none of those questions are really important. Here are five questions about the IPO that do matter. For equity investors: 1) What valuation will the company and the banks seek? More than three years ago, Prince Mohammed spoke of a $2 trillion valuation. Is that realistic? Will they try for that? 2) What will happen to the price of Aramco shares after they premier? Will the market approve of the initial listing price? Will the stock price drop? Aramco’s business is heavily weighted toward the production of crude oil compared to other major oil companies, so how closely will the market tie the price of Aramco shares to the fluctuating price of oil? 3) What will the dividend be for publicly traded shares of Aramco? High dividend rates will increase the value of the shares, but low dividend rates would likely scare away investors when they see that the government collects tens of billions of dollars in dividend from the company each quarter. For oil traders: 4) Will a publicly traded Aramco pump any more or less oil than before? (Saudi oil production rates are controlled by the separate oil ministry, but that is ultimately controlled by the government which will still own about 95% of Aramco). Will there be an incentive to pump more oil in Saudi Arabia to increase Aramco profits and help the stock price? Or will there be an incentive to push OPEC to decrease production as a whole to lift oil prices, which in turn would increase the value of Aramco? For the global community: 5) Will a publicly traded Aramco remain protective of the long-term health of its oil reserves? Once Aramco offers shares for sale, its management and board will become cognizant of its stock price. Will a desire to increase the stock price in the short term overcome a desire to invest in the reserves’ long-term health? If so, it could signal less oil for Saudi Arabia and the world in the long run. 