Last month's series on U.S. ethanol policy continues to draw reactions. Today, I will address one of those reactions. To recap, the articles in last month's series were: Marc Rauch of The Auto Channel has long been one of the most consistent ethanol defenders you will find anywhere. We have engaged in a number of cordial exchanges over the years regarding our respective views on ethanol. However, Marc took exception to my recent ethanol series, and wrote this response: Never Bring A Rapier To A Gun Fight. As I replied to him -- and as I will show today -- a rapier's point can be highly effective if the other person is shooting blanks. That’s mostly the case with Marc's response. My Proposal for Fixing the Ethanol Industry Allow me to briefly summarize my argument before I address the blanks Marc shot at them: I have gotten numerous responses to these articles, but many of them have completely missed the mark. For example, if your response to my articles is to complain about wars in the Middle East over oil, you have missed the mark. If you respond that oil is toxic and ethanol is wonderful, you missed the mark. If you argue in response that the oil industry gets subsidies, you missed the mark. If, however, you argue that it would be impractical for Midwestern states to push higher ethanol blends for one reason or another, then you are at least on the right track. I may disagree, but at least you are demonstrating some understanding of my points. If you read my arguments and conclude that I am anti-ethanol, then you either 1). Don’t understand my argument; or 2). You do understand it, but assume I am not being sincere. Because Marc Rauch immediately accused me of intellectual dishonesty -- something nobody who knows me well would ever accuse me of -- then he seems to believe I am not being sincere. No Country for Straw Men Most of the push-back to my articles from ethanol interests has been focused on the idea that oil has a lot of negative aspects, and therefore we should be using ethanol instead. That’s an interesting rebuttal, considering it is entirely irrelevant to the arguments I am making. My plan would actually boost ethanol consumption, but do it in a way that is no longer at the mercy of four-year election cycles. Much of Marc’s response is along these lines, and as such, there is no point in rebutting these specific arguments. They are straw men, diversionary tactics, or simply emotional arguments for ethanol. But, they are blanks when it comes to the points I have made. I will, however, make one ironic point. Much of Marc's reply focuses on the many evils of the oil industry. But, this is the same industry that powers the ethanol industry. Corn farmers aren't using ethanol to run their trucks and tractors. They aren't using ethanol to dry their corn when they need to. They don't use ethanol to produce the fertilizer to grow the corn. Ethanol plants aren't using corn stover to provide process heat for their factories. Those are all petroleum product inputs. Yes, in addition to being utterly dependent on the federal government, the ethanol industry is utterly dependent on petroleum. My plan takes aim at both of those dependencies. Addressing Specific Points With that, I will address some of Marc’s specific points, quoting some excerpts and then addressing them immediately afterward. After taking objection to my point that the ethanol industry’s business model is to lobby the federal government to force their product into the market, Marc responds with this: Marc Rauch: I believe that these comments from Robert are intellectually dishonest and historically inaccurate. The petroleum oil industry enjoys its position of dominance for one reason only: Federal government interference.  Again, you can call me a lot of things, but intellectually dishonest I am not. I have warned about the ethanol industry’s business model for over a decade, because of exactly the situation we are seeing now. But to rebut Marc’s last statement, one wonders why petroleum became the fuel of choice in every country in the world. It’s simple. It’s not actually because of interference. It’s because it was cheap, abundant, and had high energy density. That’s why the greenest countries in the world continue to rely on oil -- not because there is a powerful oil lobby in all of these countries. This argument presents the ethanol industry as a poor victim against the powerful oil industry, but seeking the federal government to fix this ignores the fact that many do not see it this way -- and sometimes their point of view will prevail. Marc: At this point in time, shouldn't the oil industry be free from all governments supports and be standing on its own? This reminds me of two points, the first of which strikes at the very core of almost every ethanol defender’s arguments. There is a difference between the refining industry, and “Big Oil.” Refiners must buy oil, refine it, and sell the finished products. Their margins are usually squeezed when oil prices rise. I can tell you with authority -- as someone who has worked in refining and blended gasoline -- that what they care about is margins. If they can make more money blending ethanol, that’s what they will do. This model represents the vast majority of refining in this country (e.g., Valero, Phillips 66, Marathon Petroleum). The exceptions are the real “Big Oil” -- ExxonMobil, Chevron, Shell, and BP. They produce oil and refine it, thus one could argue that they have incentive for keeping ethanol out of the market. But they represent a minority of refining in this country, whereas ethanol interests paint them as a unified majority set on blocking ethanol’s markets. It’s a false argument, but makes up the basis for many arguments in keeping ethanol mandates. The second point is that a high-profile ethanol proponent did write to me and acknowledge that ethanol has an entitlement mentality. So he granted one of my key points, which is instead of trying to grow their markets at home where they have political power, they insist on taking on interests that in some cases are aligned against them. But, as Marc does in his replies, this person went on to say “But the entitlement is justified given history.” It’s like saying “We were victims in the past, so it needs to be made right.” Look, we could argue about that all day, but it doesn’t change the fundamental fact: There will always be interests -- and not just oil interests -- aligned against the ethanol industry outside of the Midwest. No matter how you try to paint the opposition, it will exist. You can either keep fighting it on an annual basis -- and sometimes the outcome will be what we are seeing now -- or you can take control of your own destiny. Marc: In any event, the $.45 per gallon subsidy that Robert refers to didn't go to the farmers or the ethanol industry, it primarily went to the oil/gasoline blenders to make up for having to use 10% of someone else's product. I have seen this argument before, and the rebuttal is quite easy. Who howled when Congress was debating eliminating this subsidy? It wasn’t the oil industry. It was corn farmers and ethanol interests. That tells you everything you need to know about who this subsidy actually benefited, regardless of how it was structured. Marc: Correcting an injustice is not an injustice. The whole point is, not everyone agrees that it’s an injustice, and they don’t agree that if it was an injustice that this is the correct fix. Some might argue that we should instead be mandating more electric vehicles. So, we return to my argument: There are going to be vested interests lined up against you, and sometimes they are going to win. This dependence on the federal government to set the markets is exactly what has hurt the ethanol industry since President Trump’s election. He has primarily favored the refiners over the ethanol industry -- which would be irrelevant if the Midwest was driving this market themselves. Marc: I'd say that Forbes must view Robert's editorials as being anti-ethanol enough to meet their criteria for bashing ethanol, thereby allowing Robert to publish five unfavorable ethanol articles in such quick succession. Let me just clear that up right now. As long as I stay in my lane (energy), Forbes doesn’t object at all to what I write. They haven’t censored a single column of mine ever. Others have argued that Forbes is anti-climate change, yet I have published multiple articles arguing that this is a serious problem that must be addressed. So this is really just an ad hominem argument, and an unwarranted shot at Forbes given the latitude they give their contributors. And, I might add, I am working on an interview with one of the pro-ethanol groups to allow them to make their points. But, I will be challenging those points if warranted, as I am challenging Marc here. Marc: Robert wants to compare Iowa to Saudi Arabia, and he wants to treat Iowa as an isolated sand locked country. He wants to treat Iowa as if its ruled by a "royal" dictator and his family, and commands that Iowans use ethanol before using any other fuel. That is an utter misrepresentation. I used Iowa as an example, but go on to point out that the entire Midwest is where most of the ethanol is produced. Further, ethanol enjoys far more political power than oil interests in the Midwest (most of which has no oil production at all). Thus, Midwest governors could easily band together and come up with policies for vastly increasing the use of ethanol in the Midwest. It would be far easier than forcing more ethanol into Texas or California, which are states where you will find some staunch opposition to ethanol mandates. Marc: Robert implies that the oil industry has been consistently profitable; as if oil industry entities have been immune to financial downturns; as if the oil industry has not had to rely on a perpetual cycle of government largesse to survive. Absolutely not. What is the government largesse of which Marc speaks? These oil companies that over-leverage and make bad decisions are allowed to go bankrupt. They aren’t lobbying the federal government for policies like “Ban oil imports, so we can sell all of our oil at better prices and stay in business.” That would be a perfect example of government largesse. The oil industry enjoys its tax breaks, as every industry does, but they are not lobbying for federal intervention in forcing consumers to use their product. But again, to reiterate what I wrote above, the “oil industry” is not the refining industry. Refiners are middlemen. They couldn’t care less whether they are blending ethanol or selling refined oil. Heck, Valero bought a bunch of ethanol plants because they felt like they could make money selling ethanol. What refiners care about is being able to decide what to do given market economics, and not having to make long-term plans on the basis of a mandate that could disappear. If they can make more money selling ethanol, that’s what they will do. What I am arguing is for Midwest states to pass laws to make it easier for them to profit from selling ethanol. Conclusions This is really enough said on my part. In summary, I will say that the status quo -- the federal government mandating ethanol blending -- is exactly the reason we are in the present situation. My plan would address the status quo. The primary objections to my plan can be boiled down to “We just need more of the status quo.” That’s a position that is doomed to fail, and right now we can see the impact of relying on that status quo. You won’t always win the argument with the federal government. But you would always win it if you relied on Midwestern state governments to help drive demand.   