Recent headlines heralding the death of the U.S. shale boom are greatly exaggerated. But the fever pitch pace of shale development and U.S. production growth is slowing and it’s difficult to envision the sector returning to the same heights reached over the past two years. A slowdown was inevitable. Annual production growth of 1.5 million to 2 million barrels a day is not sustainable, especially with so many producers burning through cash and relying on debt to fund their operations. Even Wall Street has its limits, and investors finally grew tired of independent producers outspending their cash flows – even when they deliver impressive growth rates. So shale stocks are in the doghouse with equity prices for the top players down more than 33 percent over the past 12 months and their smaller peers down by over 60 percent    America’s shale industry has matured and that means it’s time to deliver solid returns to investors through dividends and stock buybacks or face the chopping block. Some smaller, highly-leveraged exploration and production firms likely won’t be able to refinance when their debts come due in the next two years. Activity in bond markets has been ugly for shale recently. Average bond yields for mid-sized independents have jumped from under 8 percent last year to nearly 9.5 percent this year. The amount of debt issued by the sector year-to-date is down 80 percent. The weakest companies will be forced into bankruptcy or be pushed into mergers with less-leveraged players. But any industry consolidation will be tempered by the current lack of investor enthusiasm for shale. Translation: Sellers should not expect big premiums for their assets. Rather than an era of takeovers, we could see a trend of “take-unders” in the coming months. The PDC Energy recent $1.7 billion all-stock acquisition of rival SRC Energy could be the new emerging template for shale mergers and acquisitions. The deal involved no premium for SRC Energy’s shareholders, only the promise of a more efficient and larger owner For shale companies this means that capital discipline and living within their means is a reality that is here to stay. Ignore it at your peril This holds big ramifications for the future trajectory of domestic oil production, particularly since independent producers currently account for over 80 percent of output What this means is that “short-cycle” shale production will be less responsive to rising oil prices. Any surplus cash flow from higher-than-expected oil prices will be diverted to the pockets of investors. On the flip side, U.S. oil production looks more vulnerable to falling prices than previously thought. If prices drop below budgeted levels – around $50 for West Texas Intermediate (WTI) for most independents – companies will have to reduce their capital spending and trim back production targets. That’s just the new reality for producers who are seeing their access to capital markets close and their investors demand higher returns. We can already see the effects of this new operating reality in oil production data. The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) forecasts domestic crude oil production will average 12.3 million barrels a day in 2019 – an increase of around 1.2 million barrels a day from last year – and 13.3 million barrels a day in 2020. That’s impressive growth. But a closer look reveals that U.S. production has flat-lined at around 12 million barrels a day since late last year, with July output at 11.7 million barrels a day due to losses related to Hurricane Barry. It would not be surprising to see EIA ultimately revise its forecasts downward, perhaps to a growth rate considerably under 1 million barrels a day for 2020, particularly with oil prices wobbling amid global economic concerns. The WTI benchmark is struggling to hold prices above $55 amid fears of falling demand due to the ongoing U.S.-China trade war Drilling and fracking activity has slowed markedly in the second half of this year. The U.S. oil rig count now stands at 742, its lowest level since the beginning of 2018 and about 16 percent lower than where it was at the end of last year, according to Baker Hughes Executives in the oil services sector, where my company Canary LLC operates, have started to take notice of the change on the ground. And when drilling and development action slows, a production response typically follows, albeit with a bit of a time lag Capital investment is falling. Investment bank Barclays said in a report this week that it expects North American E&P spending to decline by 15 percent in the second half of this year compared to the first half, with capex seen as remaining flat to down 5 percent in 2020. It’s not all doom and gloom for shale. Major oil companies, firms with some of the strongest balance sheets in the world, are increasingly committed to the sector. They have boosted their positions in shale substantially over the last few years and now count among the most active players in these basins, including the Permian in West Texas and New Mexico. Companies like Exxon Mobil, Chevron, Royal Dutch Shell and BP are banking on shale to deliver significant production growth in the coming years, and they won’t be deterred by softening capital market activity or lower prices. As these stronger players seize more shale assets, the entire sector’s production outlook will become more certain. The majors will bring greater predictability to a play that has surprised and confounded the member countries of the OPEC cartel in recent years. OPEC, in turn, should have a better handle on how to manage the global oil market. This will be critical in the near term as the global economy slows and demand for oil falls. Shale is saying goodbye to its fast-paced, high-flying glory days, but with stronger players in the driver’s seat it has a more secure future. And with most experts believing U.S. oil production won’t peak until it hits 15 million barrels a day, there’s plenty of room for growth – even if it happens at a more measured pace in 2020 and beyond. 