Today’s Top 12 Stories Across Forbes Featured in the Daily Dozen Newsletter For almost a decade, Tesla’s Model S has enjoyed a blissful, competition-free existence as the only premium electric vehicle on the market. That’s about to change—fast, thanks to Porsche’s Taycan. Oil prices soared following an attack on key facilities in Saudi Arabia, which halved the country's output. Yemen's Houthi rebels claimed responsibility for the attack, but the U.S. suspects Iran's involvement, which Tehran denies. A few years ago, Michael Jordan sat down to pizza and drinks with friends in New York. That night Jordan’s new luxury tequila company was born. OxyContin manufacturer Purdue Pharma, owned by the billionaire Sackler family, filed for bankruptcy protection as part of a deal to settle more than 2,600 lawsuits. But at least 24 states refused the deal, vowing to pursue litigation. The music industry is doubling down on its fight with Peloton, amending a lawsuit against the workout-tech startup that alleges it misused songs from artists like Taylor Swift, Adele and The Beatles. As Apple and the Walt Disney Co. become closer competitors Disney CEO Bob Iger is stepping down from Apple’s board. Nothing seems to be going right for J.Crew these days. So Madewell, the company’s fast-growing women’s brand, will try to distance itself and become a separate, public company. Leaked details of Kanye West’s newest shoe release—the so-called Foam Runner—has drawn the attention of Twitter, which immediately dubbed them “Yeezy Crocs” and lampooned the sneaker for what some saw as a ridiculous design. And in our weekly Dark Capital series on the intersection of wealth, power and crime: the disturbing moment from Rupert Murdoch’s long-ago past when an attempted kidnapping for ransom of his wife Anna led to the gruesome murder of the spouse of one of his deputies. In an exclusive excerpt from Stephen Schwarzman's new book, What It Takes, the billionaire Blackstone cofounder shares the lessons from an early triumph—and an expensive mid-career mistake. Daniel Dines created the world’s hottest tech company, $7 billion UIPath, by unleashing virtual robots on office grunt work. He’s become the first bot billionaire in the process. Get our 12 best stories sent straight to your inbox with the inside scoop on the world’s most important entrepreneurs and superstars, expert career advice and success secrets. Or see all Forbes newsletters. 