The recent drone attacks on Saudi oil fields have many travelers wondering if their holiday flights might be much more expensive this year. The incident knocked out 5 percent of the world’s daily oil production, according to CNBC. So far, there’s little reason to worry, says Hayley Berg, economist for Hopper, a Boston-based airfare prediction website and app (available in the Apple and Google Play stores). “In the short term, it's not likely that this event will impact airfares substantially,” says Berg. “That's because airlines typically hedge three to four months in advance, so they're essentially protected from a kind of short-term spike in price like the one we've seen this week.” But look beyond 2019 and Berg’s forecast becomes more iffy. “Right now, the market feels confident that the reserves we have, and the supply that we have globally is secure,” says Berg. “But I wouldn't be surprised if some of that increase in prices that we saw earlier this week sticks around, certainly not be record breaking extent that we saw on September 16th, but it's possible that we could see a persistent increase and then we could see also an increase in airfare prices.” For now, Hopper is sticking by its recommendation to book holiday airfares by the end of October. “Booking before Halloween is the best time to get a good deal,” says Berg. “We recommend travelers try to book as early as possible with October 31 being a good marker date. If consumers see a price they really like or have a specific flight date and time they want for the holidays, we recommend booking as soon as you see that price.” What might cause Berg to change her outlook? All bets are off if the United States engages in a retaliatory war with Iran, as has been speculated in some news outlets. “With an event as large as a war, we would definitely see an impact on the supply of oil. Global conflict impacts everything from tribulations to actual physical supply, crossing oceans and borders,” says Berg. “So if we see a disruptive global event, it is possible that we could see those one-time spikes we saw earlier this week becoming persistent.” Travelers planning flights in 2020 might have cause to worry if they see an increase in the frequency of oil price spikes. “This past week was a one-time event that has been able to be mitigated in many ways,” says Berg. “But a larger and more persistent global crisis would take us out of that three to four months hedge period, and that's when we would see impact come through pricewise.” READ MORE 