On October 1, 2018, GE appointed Larry Culp Chairman and CEO. As a shareholder, the time since then has not been great – after all, shares have lost 24% – putting the stock 84% below its all time high of around $58 in September 2000. And the latest move in Culp’s effort to boost its liquidity – selling a big chunk of GE’s stake in its oil field services business, Baker Hughes – reminds me of how long the odds are for my GE lottery ticket to pay off. How so? the Wall Street Journal reported that GE will give up its majority stake in Baker Hughes – raising $2.9 billion in cash while triggering a $7.4 billion accounting charge after its ownership in Baker Hughes drops from 50.2% to below 40%. And with its focus on GE’s debt, a shift in management’s attention to reviving growth – which would catalyze the stock – seems unlikely to happen for a long time. GE is optimistic about its prospects. As spokesperson Mary Kate Mullaney explained, GE believes it is “executing on two priorities Larry has laid out: strengthen our balance sheet and improve the underlying performance of our businesses (lots of opportunities even in our best-managed businesses).” In addition to transactions designed to strengthen its balance sheet, GE is changing its culture and taking advantage of growth opportunities. As Mullaney said, GE is “building a culture of candor, transparency, humility to address issues at root cause and continually improve; operational rigor and lean mindset to drive sustainable performance improvements.” GE believes it will be able to grow by building on its strengths. As Culp said in a March 14, 2019 outlook call, “We have leading technologies in growing markets...Our vast and valuable installed base keeps us intimately involved with our customers... These relationships and the scale of the network GE has built around the world continues to be a unique competitive advantage.” GE’s investment in Baker Hughes is one of Jack Welch successor, Jeff Immelt’s many bad bets. Years ago, I did consulting work for a Baker Hughes competitor which revealed to me that since it is a complementary good – like furniture is to houses – demand for oil field services varies depending on the price of oil and gas. As the price of oil and gas goes up, demand for oil field services rises – and vice versa. In 2014, Immelt – who spent more than $14 billion on deals in the sector over a decade – told investors that he made this bet assuming the price of oil would hit about $100 a barrel, noted the Journal, which reported that oil’s price is now about $58 a barrel. Immelt left plenty of problems in his wake – not the least of which was the idea that GE was the “World’s Digital Industrial Company” – whatever that meant. By the time Culp took over as CEO, it meant that GE had a balance sheet saddled with more than $100 billion in debt – creating a pressing need for raising cash. GE has responded by selling assets. As the Journal reported, GE recently reached a deal to sell GE Capital’s airplane finance unit to Apollo Global Management and has sold its transportation business. Culp’s former employer, Danaher is in the process of acquiring GE’s biotech business for $21 billion. And the latest move to reduce GE’s stake in Baker Hughes was part of an agreement that Culp reached soon after he became CEO to exit this investment earlier than July 2019 (a term in the merger deal). Will GE Drop to $7 or Soar to $15? Where will GE’s stock go from here? Wolfe Research analyst Nigel Coe sets a price target of $15, according to Barron’s. Coe says GE has put its debt issues in the rear view mirror with consolidated debt on a glide path to 2.6 times EBITDA over the next two years. The bear case on GE, as articulated by Gordon Haskett analyst John Inch, concludes that the stock will drop to $7. Haskett argues that long-term care insurance and pension liabilities will consume GE’s liquidity – forcing the company to raise cash by selling stock (which GE said in the third quarter 2018 conference call that it did not plan to do), according to Barron’s. Can GE grow faster? Under Jack Welch, GE managed to sustain double digit quarterly earnings per share growth. But in the second quarter of 2019, GE’s revenues fell 1% and it reported a loss. Which leaves me wondering whether GE can grow faster. For that to happen, it will need to gain market share in its core businesses of making jet engines, turbines, MRI machines and other heavy-duty industrial equipment, invent new products that create new industries, or acquire companies whose revenues GE can accelerate by applying its corporate strengths. If GE Aviation accounted for most of GE’s revenues, GE would not be shrinking. After all, in 2018, GE Aviation's revenue rose 13% to $30.6 billion while its profit popped 20% to $6.5 billion, according to the MotleyFool. While growth for GE Aviation is expected to slow to single digits for 2019, there was a big backlog of jet orders in April 2019. For example, Airbus’s backlog or its A320neo family jets was nearly 6,000 orders while the now beleaguered 737 MAX had a backlog of 4,700 orders. Unfortunately, GE Aviation’s second quarter 2019 report was not great. After all orders fell 10% to $8.6 billion – equipment plunged 24% while services inched up 3%. Revenues increased 5% to $7.9 billion but segment profit was down 6% to $1.385 billion. According to its Q2 report, the profit decline was “driven by engine mix from the introduction of the Passport engine and continued transition from CFM to LEAP, as well as charges related to uncertainty of collections for a customer and additional cost for the GE9X certification.” What’s more, the grounding of the 737 MAX was causing GE to “actively manage [its] engine production.” Much depends on how soon the 737 MAX begins flying again. Mullaney emphasized a strong outlook for GE Aviation. As she said, “We're still on track to deliver high single-digit revenue growth and segment margins of approximately 20% in 2019.” I think the market understands well the risks of GE stock. But if GE can report better-than-expected growth, its stock would get a considerable boost. 