As tensions in the Middle East rise–and oil prices soar–following the attacks on Saudi Arabian oil facilities, the Kremlin has both urged caution, and offered to sell the Saudis weapons. “We have a negative attitude towards rising tensions in the region and call for all countries in the region and outside of it to avoid any hasty steps or conclusions which may deepen destabilisation,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in remarks reported by Reuters. Moscow's caution against hasty conclusions puts it at odds with the United States. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo tweeted in the aftermath of the September 14 strikes that Iran had "launched an unprecedented attack on the world's energy supply." Oil prices soared when markets opened again September 16, with Brent crude experiencing the largest rise in percentage terms since Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait in 1990, according to the Financial Times. Prices peaked at almost $72 per barrel before dropping back to $66, still an increase of 11%, the paper reported. The Russian Energy Minister, Alexander Novak, suggested that–following the attacks–Russia might look again at security at its own oil installations. "Such incidents as the attack on Saudi Arabian facilities require a re-evaluation of the current situation," he said, according to TASS. Visiting Ankara September 16 for talks with the leaders of Turkey and Iran, the Russian President, Vladimir Putin, noted that those two countries had purchased Russian air defense systems, and suggested that Saudi Arabia might wish to "make a wise government decision," and do the same. Mr Putin is due to visit Saudi Arabia in October. The Kremlin had made clear it does not expect the attacks on Saudi oil facilities to affect preparations for the trip. The incident has highlighted again Russia's renewed, and growing, role in the Middle East. In 2017, King Salman of Saudi Arabia made the first visit to Moscow by a ruling Saudi monarch. Closer ties with Saudi Arabia do not seem to have harmed Russia's relations with Iran, the Saudis' regional rival. Russia and Iran have been strong supporters of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. The subject of the meeting which brought Mr Putin to Ankara was how to secure a lasting peace in Syria. 