 By Mark Finley and Ken Medlock For nearly 50 years, consumers and policymakers have worried about a major disruption of Saudi oil supplies. To be clear, the Saudi Arabia is one of the world’s most important suppliers of oil, producing significant quantities of oil and maintaining spare production capacity that has been vital to market stability in the past. The legacy of instability in the region has long cast a shadow over energy security discourse around the world, and has been a persistent motivator of US presence in the region and the adherence to the Carter Doctrine. Given this most recent disruption, have long-held fears been realized? And, does this set the stage for wider scale disruption that could lead to price spikes reminiscent of the 1970s? On Saturday morning, two Saudi facilities came under attack. Yemen’s Houthi movement has claimed credit and claims to be planning more attacks, but US officials have blamed Iran. Regardless, according to the Saudi government the attack has shut-in 5.7 million barrels per day (Mb/d) of crude oil production, along with 0.7 Mb/d of natural gas liquids and 2 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas. That’s more than half of Saudi oil production, and about 6% of global oil production. Although 6% may not seem like much to the casual observer, 5.7 Mb/d represents the largest oil supply disruption ever, surpassing the combined loss of Kuwaiti and Iraqi production following the latter’s invasion of the former in August 1990 that drove a doubling of oil prices, seeing the US plunged into recession.  It’s important to note that it’s early days. We don’t know the full extent of the damage to the main processing center at Abqaiq or the Khurais oilfield. Abqaiq can process up to 7 Mb/d of crude oil, and the Khurais field is the Kingdom’s 2nd-largest, with production capacity of about 1.2 Mb/d. Aramco reported the fires were brought quickly under control, and the Saudi Energy Minister indicated a status report will be provided by Monday evening. Indeed, the situation is fluid; late Sunday, Saudi officials said they planned to restore up to 2 Mb/d of lost production on Monday. Information about the extent of the damage will be very influential for the oil market as the size and duration of the outage will be critical in determining the market impact, as well as the response of governments, businesses and consumers.  While the realization of lost Saudi production is immediate and pressing for markets, a perhaps even more important gauge for market reaction in the coming days is the perceptions of the risk of an escalation of regional tensions, which could have significant implications for the market if additional supplies are thought to be at risk, including remaining Saudi production. About 21 Mb/d of oil flowed through the Strait of Hormuz in 2018, including exports from Iran, Iraq, and the GCC states. Iran has recently threatened regional oil flows in the face of tighter US sanctions, and the market impact of even a temporary disruption of Middle East oil supplies would be severe. Even if no other regional supplies are disrupted, if the outage of Saudi production resulting from the attack is sustained, there are significant implications for oil prices, refined product prices (including prices at the pump), as well as the US and world economy. Of course, the ultimate impact will depend on both market and policy responses.  For one, the use of inventories will play a role. For instance, the US and other members of the International Energy Agency hold large inventories of crude oil and refined products (4.5 billion barrels, of which roughly 1.5 billion is government-owned or -controlled). Indeed, the Trump administration has already indicated it will release oil from the SPR if needed. The US DOE says that it can release a maximum of 4.4 Mb/d from the US strategic stockpile for 90 days, but the adequacy of infrastructure in place to release that much oil is an open question.  Historically, another safety valve for the world oil market has been spare production capacity. Members of the OPEC+ group of countries that have been cutting production to support prices could elect to increase production. OPEC countries currently hold about 2 Mb/d of spare production capacity, although most of that was in Saudi Arabia and it’s unclear how the attacks may have impacted the Kingdom’s spare capacity.  Beyond that, higher prices will eventually place a drag on demand growth and encourage new supply, including from US shale producers. Here in the US, the economy-wide adverse impact of higher prices is likely to be smaller than in previous periods of high oil price because the US is much larger producer of oil thanks to the shale revolution. However, the US is still connected to global markets through both crude oil and petroleum product trade (the US is a significant net exporter of refined products), so the impacts on consumer prices will be tangible. That stated, the impacts will be not be uniform, with domestic (and foreign) oil producing regions benefitting while consumers everywhere will see adverse impacts. Moreover, higher prices will impact US consumers immediately, while production will take more time to respond due to the requirements to expand upstream and midstream investments.  And, of course, the impacts will extend beyond the US. Higher oil prices will affect consumers and economies around the world at time when many regions are teetering on the brink of recession. Thus, the broader macroeconomic implications for US trading partners (and hence the US) who are dependent on oil imports from the Middle East and elsewhere could be significant.  So, what’s the bottom line? It is definitely worth repeating that this is the biggest oil supply disruption ever. And, its full direct impact will depend on the duration of the outage, as well as responses by governments, companies, and consumers. Longer term, whether or not this is a bellwether for intensifying regional conflict remains to be seen. But the apparent precision of the attacks is alarming and raises the specter of uncertainty for supplies throughout the region.  Stay tuned!  Mark Finley is a fellow in Energy and Global Oil at Rice University's Baker Institute for Public Policy Ken Medlock is the James A. Baker III and Susan G. Baker Fellow in Energy and Resource Economics, and Senior Director of the Center for Energy Studies at Rice University’s Baker Institute.  