Over the weekend, Saudi Arabia, the world’s second largest oil-producing country, experienced drone attacks on some of its key oil production facilities. The attack caused large fires at the oil facilities and reduced the country’s oil production by 5.7 million barrels a day. This, in turn, sent 5% of the world’s oil production to a screeching halt as the burning oil sent dark billows of smoke into the air. On Monday morning, the price of crude shot up nearly 20%, before settling back to close the day up about 14%. As the Saudis continue to evaluate the damage and make repairs, the price of oil is expected to remain volatile. It’s not known yet just how hard consumers will be hit by the interruption in oil production. However, some experts are estimating the U.S. will experience as much as a 25-cent per gallon price increase starting this week and continuing throughout the month. Considering the national average price for gas is currently sitting at $2.564, according to AAA, the jump in prices could cause major strain on the wallets of commuters, particularly those who drive gas guzzlers.    If you’re worried about how you’ll manage the pending increase of gas prices, use these six tips to save money at the pump. Thanks to the power of smartphones, it’s no longer necessary to drive around, wasting gas, to find the cheapest place to buy gas. Instead, apps like GasBuddy and Gas Guru are now available with real-time information about prices at gas stations close to a user’s location.  GasBuddy also offers a way to save at the pump. Pay With Gas Buddy is a feature that works as a rewards system. After members link their checking account to the service, they will receive a card to use at the gas pump. Members save 5 cents per gallon on every fill-up. Pay With Gas Buddy also lets members earn GasBack rewards through everyday purchases at thousands of retailers, including Walmart and Petco, which can be redeemed for money off at the pump and can be combined with the automatic 5 cents off per gallon, just for using the Gas Buddy card.  Many chain gas stations have fuel rewards programs that can help shave off a few cents per gallon every time you visit the pump. Some of the best fuel rewards programs include: A handful of grocery store chains offer their own rewards programs that can be redeemed at the gas pump. A few of those programs include: Keep in mind that each program has specific qualifications for when points can be redeemed. At Safeway, for example, points expire at the end of the month they are earned. At Kroger, they expire at the end of the following month. Giant Food’s rewards points are valid for 30 days.  If you really want to stack your savings, enroll in a fuel rewards programs and then pay for your gas with a rewards credit card to earn even more back. A few examples of cards with generous cash back for gas include: Read more: Forbes’ Best Cash Back Credit Cards According to both AAA and the U.S.Department of Energy, keeping tabs on car maintenance can help contribute to savings at the gas pump. Both organizations advise drivers to take their car in for maintenance repairs as soon as the “Check Engine” light comes on. They also recommend keeping tires properly inflated to enhance fuel economy.  It also pays to drive less aggressively. The DOE reports that aggressive driving (meaning speeding and rapid acceleration, followed by the inevitable braking) can lower your gas mileage 15% to 30% on the highway and 10% to 40% in stop-and-go traffic. Moreover, DOE says, every five miles per hour you go over 50 MPH reduces efficiency so much that it's the equivalent of paying an extra $0.18 per gallon for gas.  Have you ever noticed that some gas stations offer a discount for customers paying in cash? This is because most debit and credit card servicers charge businesses each time a transaction is made. So some stations will offer a lower price if you pay in cash. Before you decide to pay in cash, however, make sure the cash savings are sufficiently greater than the rewards you'll earn using your credit card to be worth the hassle. (Usually, you have to go into the service station.) So if the cash discount is 10 cents a gallon, and you're earning a generous three or four cents back from your credit card per $1 charged, there's slim or no advantage to paying in cash.  