By Ike Brannon and Eric Miller A central plank of President Trump’s foreign policy toward Europe has been a demand for greater “burden-sharing” in the costs of defending the continent. Since the founding of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in 1949, the United States has paid the lion’s share of the bill for the Alliance. In 2006, NATO Defense Ministers formally agreed that each of its 29 members would spend a minimum of 2% of their GDP on defense. Yet, according to a March 2019 NATO report, only 7 of the 29 members have reached the 2% goal.  While the U.S. spent 3.4% of its GDP on defense in 2018, only 1 of the top 5 economies in Europe (the United Kingdom) reached the 2% target. Germany spent only 1.2% of GDP on defense while France reached 1.8% and Italy invested a mere 1.15%. Our NATO allies collectively have a higher GDP than the United States but spend less than half as much on defense.    While President Trump’s insistence that our EU partners take on a higher share of the collective defense has laid bare an uncomfortable truth, the odds that one of the perennial under-spenders will reach 2% seem remote despite his remonstrations. It is clearly time to take a new approach. If the European allies will not buy more tanks and planes, perhaps the president should encourage them to spend money on other things that would enhance their security and--incidentally--brings benefits to America. For instance, since the end of the Cold War, the definition of security has expanded beyond the quantities of conventional armaments. For instance, one of the biggest security concerns in Europe today is in the area of energy. Today, the U.S. is now one of the world’s largest natural gas exporters, yet little goes to Europe. The continent imports 69% of its natural gas, with 37% of this coming from Russia.  Germany is particularly dependent on Russian gas; it imports 95% of its gas, and 40% of that comes from Russia. This dependence will only increase when the Nord Stream 2 pipeline connecting Russia and Germany across the Baltic Sea is completed. The United States has been deeply opposed to the project since its inception, fearing that it will give Russia dangerous leverage over European allies. On July 31, 2019, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee passed a bill authorizing sanctions against individuals and companies involved in the project. The House Foreign Affairs Committee passed a companion bill the previous month.  While it is unclear whether sanctions would stop the project, they would certainly alienate major European energy companies, including Royal Dutch Shell and OMV of Austria, which joined with Russia’s Gazprom to build the project. America’s concerns about European dependence on Russian gas are well-founded given Moscow’s demonstrated willingness to weaponize gas exports to advance its geopolitical interests. In 2009, for example, Russia cut off gas exports to Ukraine for 13 days in the dead of winter. It takes little imagination to foresee Russia doing the same to Germany in the midst of a tense geopolitical negotiation. The fear of future Russian gas supply disruptions may not be sufficient to entice Germany to make a change, but perhaps The U.S.--via NATO--could provide some carrots for Western Europe to change their energy orientation. One way to incent a shift toward U.S. suppliers might be to modify the NATO criteria to allow members to count resources spent substituting Russian gas with U.S. gas toward their 2% defense commitment. Germany is expected to add four import terminals for liquefied natural gas over the next four years. This would increase Europe’s LNG import capacity by 33 percent and overcome the current infrastructure impediments to more energy imports from the United States. If the Germans are not willing to directly pay more for their own defense, let’s encourage them to extricate themselves from a financial arrangement that could one day compromise NATO. More U.S. energy exports to Europe would also narrow the trade deficit, thereby potentially reducing trans-Atlantic trade tensions. Rather than simply lashing out at the Nord Stream 2 project, The U.S. should turn the tables on Russia and formally--and properly--place energy at the core of the U.S.-Europe security relationship. Ike Brannon is a senior fellow at the Jack Kemp Foundation Eric Miller is President of Rideau Potomac Strategy Group, a Global Fellow at the Woodrow Wilson Center, and a Fellow at the Canadian Global Affairs Institute.  