The attack on Saudi oil facilities that has rippled through global markets and increased the prospects for U.S. military action against Iran underscores the need for a course correction in U.S. policy in the Persian Gulf. The administration has yet to provide definitive proof of Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s allegation that the strike was carried out by or with the assistance of Iran. The administration has apparently shared an assessment with Saudi Arabia to that effect, but it has yet to make the information public where it can be subjected to careful scrutiny. This is no small matter given the role of misleading claims in spurring the disastrous U.S. intervention in Iraq, a destabilizing war that the United States and the region are still paying for in blood and treasure. The Houthi rebels in Yemen have claimed credit for the strike, and they have drones with the range capable of carrying it out. If it was the Houthi, their motive is clear – hitting back against a four-and-a-half year Saudi-led blockade and bombing campaign that has sparked the world’s worst humanitarian crisis, killing thousands of civilians through air strikes and tens of thousands more from disease, lack of food, and inadequate medical care sparked by the war. While both sides of the war have been identified by the United Nations for potentially committing war crimes, the only way forward is to stop the Saudi coalition’s indiscriminate air strikes, remove impediments to the movement of humanitarian aid, and press both sides to negotiate in good faith for peace. That should be the goal of Trump administration policy, not ratcheting up military tensions and continuing to support the brutal Saudi war effort. If Iran did in fact carry out or assist in the attack on Saudi oil facilities, it’s a different story, but the answer is still not U.S. military action that could lead to full-scale war, including damages to Saudi Arabia that would make the recent strike look minor by comparison. The question we should be asking in the wake of the attack on Saudi oil infrastructure is how did we get here? The Trump administration bears significant blame for the current situation in the Gulf. First, the administration walked away from the Iran nuclear deal, an extraordinary multi-lateral agreement that included not just the United States and Iran but Russia, China, the United Kingdom, France, Germany and representatives of the European Union. The deal was working, preventing progress on Iran’s nuclear program while promising an opening for trade between Iran, the U.S., and Western Europe that would have eased tensions while creating a climate in which reformers in Iran would have more room to maneuver without U.S. interference or threats of regime change. If the Iran deal were still in place, there would be little or no prospect of a new Mideast war. The U.S. withdrawal from the nuclear deal was followed by the administration’s campaign of “maximum pressure,” which aims to strangle Iran’s economy and force Tehran to the table for an allegedly better deal to curb its nuclear program and agreement to end support for regional actors like Hezbollah, Iranian-backed militias in Syria, and the Houthis in Yemen. The pressure campaign has backfired, sparking more assertive moves from Iran while yielding zero in the way of concessions to U.S. demands. Prior to the recent attack on Saudi oil assets, President Trump was making noises about having direct talks with Iranian President Rouhani, perhaps as early as this month. Iran has asserted that it will not engage in talks unless economic sanctions are lifted, but at least diplomacy has been under discussion in Washington, a situation far preferable than a blind march towards military confrontation. Make no mistake, a new war in the Middle East could have devastating consequences. Analyst Ali Vaez of the International Crisis Group has stated that a full-scale war with Iran could make the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan look like a “walk in the park” by comparison. And the Costs of War Project at Brown University has calculated that the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have resulted in expenditures and obligations worth over $5.9 trillion, a huge multiple of the estimates put forward by Bush administration officials on the eve of the U.S. intervention in Iraq. Before this administration takes military action that could escalate into full-scale war, it should take a hard look at the impacts of its policies to date. There is already a bipartisan effort in Congress to pass legislation that would prevent war with Iran without Congressional approval. More needs to be done not only to put the brakes on a potential conflict with Iran but to prompt an about face that prioritizes diplomacy over war or the threat of war. The alternative would be both disastrous and unacceptable.