Ukraine’s new government, led by a former actor named Vladimir Zelensky, is going to tick off a lot of people in the West whose job it is to make Vladimir Putin look like Goldfinger. Zelensky thinks Vladimir “Goldfinger” Putin wants to normalize relations. Ukraine’s new president said during the 16th annual YES Conference on Friday that he was fine with an international peacekeeping force along the Ukraine-Russia border in the east, and wanted to put an end to the war in the Donetsk and Luhansk region of the Donbass in Ukraine. Both Donetsk and Luhansk are industrial hubs and have been the center of a bitter Russia-Ukraine divorce since 2014. Zelensky also made overtures to abiding more closely to the Minsk peace deal with Russia, which would require voting in the breakaway republics of Donetsk and Luhansk. Former president Petro Poroshenko was largely against voting out of fear the separatists would win full autonomy, risking the ultimate break up of Ukraine in Russia’s favor. Poroshenko had little success in ending the fighting between his government and Russian-backed separatists. Many observers saw Russian support for separatists in the region as another Kremlin-orchestrated attempt to break up a former Soviet state. It would be impossible for a divided Ukraine to join NATO. As it is, Crimea is now part of Russia. The former southeastern Ukrainian peninsula, home to the historic city of Yalta and to Russia’s Black Sea Navy, was largely off the menu at the YES conference. Ukraine would have to shed Crimea if it wanted to join NATO as NATO members cannot be involved in border disputes. Zelensky says that he wants Ukraine to apply for NATO membership at some point in the next five years, a move Russia would surely disdain. That gives Russia little impetus to normalize relations. Although the fighting between warring factions in the regions have slowed since 2014-2015, a large part of the economy has been crushed because of it. A significant part of Zelensky’s keynote was reportedly devoted to happier times coming to Ukraine, with specific attention spent on ending the hostilities in the east and reintegrating the Donbass into Ukraine. Donbass includes Luhansk and Donetsk. The Azov Sea is on the southernmost border of Donbass. Zelensky said he would make troop withdrawal “a priority”—first near the settlements of Zolotoe and Petrovsky. Poroshenko had a similar policy, but maybe Zelensky will have better luck with it seeing how Russia is giving him a chance to mend fences. Zelensky said that once troop settlements were taken care of, then Kiev will allow elections in “parts of the Donbass occupied by separatists.” There is a risk that they would vote for autonomy, but Kiev has experience with autonomous republics. Crimea was one before Russia annexed it in March 2014 following the fall of the Viktor Yanukovych government at the time. Ukraine’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Vadim Pristayko, reportedly said at the YES conference that elections in the territories that have declared themselves independent from Kiev still had to abide by existing Ukrainian law. Both sides are determined to solve the problem of occupation but neither want to make serious concessions, a possible stalemate for Zelensky. The Trump administration’s approach to Ukraine has differed from that of his predecessor. Barack Obama never escalated the crisis militarily, but provided just enough U.S. military assistance to risk a proxy war with the Russians over a country few in America were interested in fighting for. Obama also was faced with hawkish members of his own State Department and allies who wanted him to provide Poroshenko’s Ukraine with military weaponry, something it seems Obama did not go through with in the end. Ukraine stopped becoming a source for Russian sanctions around 2016 when Congress took to punishing Putin for his support of Syrian leader Bashar Assad and meddling in the U.S. election. A Kommersant article on Sunday cited a YES speech by U.S. State Department Special Representative for Ukraine Kurt Walker, who welcomed the recent Russia-Ukraine prisoner swap and the new dynamics in play between Zelensky and Russia. Walker warned Zelensky against getting too cozy too soon with Putin. “The problem is that Russia has not recognized its responsibility under the Minsk agreements either,” Walker said. “Russia has obligations that she does not want to fulfill. Russia pretends it doesn’t bear any responsibility. It calls this an internal problem of Ukraine that needs to be negotiated with the so-called people's republics. This is a denial of reality,” he said. Zelensky might have big dreams for Ukraine. And some of them may be based on the “fictional reality” from which he came. The former actor played a school teacher-turned-president in the TV drama series Servant of the People. In it, his character becomes a sick-and-tired Ukrainian who is put in power through the electoral process where he is given the mighty task of deeply embedded corruption and economic inertia. His new political party is called “Servant of the People.” Worse for Zelensky, perhaps, Russian gas giant Gazprom said recently that it was not yet interested in revving up its European natural gas deliveries via Ukrainian’s pipelines. Those deliveries are an important source of revenue for the Ukrainian government. Gazprom is currently building Nord Stream II, a sister pipeline to the Baltic Sea Nord Stream I line already connecting Russia to Germany. The pipeline was conceived as an alternative route into Europe at a time when Ukraine political risk was at its highest. 