The Trump administration formally revoked California’s ability to set its own vehicle emissions standards today, threatening billions in new costs for American consumers, massive emissions increases, and a fractured market for the United States auto industry. Energy Innovation modeling finds that the impacts of the Trump administration’s pending federal fuel economy standards freeze will be significantly worse with the loss of California’s waiver, costing consumers up to an additional $160 billion through 2050 and increasing transportation emissions up to an additional 4% in 2035.  The waiver revocation affects roughly 35% of the U.S. auto market – including not only California but the 13 other states plus Washington, D.C. that pledged to follow California’s standards (known as the Section 177 States). This unprecedented move comes even as four major automakers agreed to a compromise deal with California to manufacture vehicles with higher fuel efficiency than the Trump administration’s proposed freeze at 2020 levels.  Considering these significant impacts to consumers, the climate, and the auto industry, revoking California’s waiver will only help benefit oil companies and the Trump administration’s deregulatory agenda. Revoking California’s waiver hurts consumers by hiking gasoline consumption Trump’s proposed fuel economy standards freeze will be terrible for consumers – but the impacts will be much more severe if California loses its Clean Air Act waiver allowing it to set its own tailpipe emissions standards. The total impacts are uncertain, as automakers could respond to a split auto market in multiple ways, but modeling using the Energy Policy Simulator shows revoking the waiver could cost consumers up to $160 billion.  These costs are a direct result of increased fuel expenses, as the waiver revocation could result in up to 2.9 billion additional barrels of gasoline consumed by drivers.  These calculated impacts represent the differences between the two scenarios shown above, represented by the red wedges. With California’s waiver revoked, national impacts will fall on the high end of the calculated ranges. Energy Innovation modeling finds that freezing standards across the entire U.S. would cost consumers up to $400 billion and result in 7.6 billion additional barrels of gasoline burned. Maintaining California’s waiver could limit the impacts to $240 billion and 4.7 billion barrels of gasoline. Trump’s move is also disastrous for climate change Revoking California’s waiver authority is also disastrous for climate. Transportation emissions have been the biggest U.S. source of greenhouse gases (GHGs) for three years in a row, meaning cutting auto emissions is key to preventing the worst impacts of climate change. Fuel economy and tailpipe emissions standards are two of the strongest policies available to curb transportation GHG emissions and harmful air pollutants, and revoking California’s waiver is a huge blow to state efforts to limit their environmental and climate impacts. Energy Innovation modeling finds that transportation emissions could increase up to an additional 4% if California loses its waiver, bringing total emissions increases up to whopping 10%. Automakers support California’s authority and stronger emissions standards Besides impacting consumers and the climate, the Trump administration’s proposed standards freeze and revocation of California’s waiver will hurt the U.S. auto industry. Automakers and workers have broadly opposed an emissions standards freeze, which would reduce the competitiveness of American auto manufacturing and threaten up to 500,000 jobs.  This opposition was embodied when four major automakers struck their deal on emissions standards with California in an attempt to circumvent the Trump administration’s freeze proposal and ensure regulatory certainty while producing clean and internationally competitive cars. By attempting to remove California’s ability to set stronger standards and discouraging innovative clean technologies, the Trump administration is setting manufacturers up for failure. Less efficient U.S. cars will fall behind cleaner, international vehicles, especially in the face of volatile fuel prices. Because this automaker-California compromise adds weight to lawsuits threatened by California and other states, the Trump administration launched an antitrust investigation into the four automakers. But no evidence exists that these automakers violated antitrust laws by simply making business decisions to produce efficient vehicles, and many other examples of voluntary agreements between automakers and government have not been considered antitrust. The investigation only serves to intimidate automakers who may support California’s authority and protect the administration’s actions against legal challenges.  Trump’s deregulatory agenda hurts American consumers, businesses, and the climate While the Trump administration’s latest move will prompt extensive litigation and will likely be held up in court, revoking California’s waiver is an unprecedented move against states’ rights that would only cement the harmful effects of an emissions standards freeze. Consumers will pay billions more in fuel costs and transportation emissions will rise as a result.  American auto manufacturing will also suffer, even though the auto industry has made it clear they support California’s authority to set its own emissions standards and oppose a fuel efficiency freeze. And according to the Trump administration’s own analysis, it will cost Americans 60,000 jobs, although industry experts predict even higher job losses. While the Trump administration claims this move benefits American citizens, it’s clear the real winner here is the fossil fuel industry. 