An almighty oil market kerfuffle in the wake of an audacious attack on Saudi Arabia's state-owned energy behemoth Aramco appears to be easing, at least for now. In the small hours of the morning of September 14 – or around 1:00 am GMT if you want to be precise – multiple drone attacks hit the country's crude processing facilities in Abqaiq and the Khurais oilfield, a Saudi extraction site that went on stream in June 2009. As the images of burning Saudi Aramco sites hit international news networks and Yemen's Iran-backed Houthi rebels claimed responsibility, Riyadh finally admitted the attack resulted in a "temporary loss" of 5.7 million barrels per day (bpd) in production capacity. Given that Saudi Arabia pumped 9.77 million bpd in August, going by the most recent S&P Global Platts survey, and the Kingdom's total production capacity is 12 million bpd; the said loss implied a 58% drop in current production, and a 47.5% drop in gross production capacity. If that wasn't enough for symbolism, Khurais is adjacent to the Ghawar, the world's largest conventional oilfield and symbol of its industry prowess. Oil market bulls, starved of a lack of geopolitical risk premium since the market glut of 2014, courtesy rising U.S. production and the subsequent industry downturn 2015-16, sent the global proxy benchmark Brent higher by 20% to $71 per barrel at one point intraday when the markets first opened in Asia. However, in the hours that followed and the days those hours added up to, there were several tugs on what is largely a sentiment driven market that does not confirm to any particular script. If an attack of this magnitude would have happened as recently as 2012-13, you would have noticed an immediate uptick of $10 -15 per barrel. But in a changed 'crude' world, with the U.S. acting as a buffer producer pumping in excess of 12 million bpd, and tipped to hit 13.4 million bpd in 2020 by some forecasters, not even a third of the risk premium once considered a given for times like these stands at the time of writing, with Brent under $65 per barrel (November contract at $64.94 at 16:52 GMT on September 20). Whodunit? Riyadh points to Tehran Traders are cognizant of copious amounts of U.S. light crude competing with OPEC and non-OPEC crude for lucrative Asian markets. In fact, the only reason the premium is still lurking around ~$5 per barrel is down to several related but unpredictable variables. In a matter of hours after the attack, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo furiously blamed Iran for the attack, something the powers that be in Tehran denied with equally predictable ferocity. Evidence that has been presented since points to a level of sophistication deemed beyond the capability of a mere rebel group. Complicating matters further is the claim of Houthi rebels to have had help "within" Saudi Arabia to launch the attacks. The kingdom's defense ministry spokesman Col. Turki al-Malki claimed on Wednesday (September 18) that 18 drones and seven cruise missiles were fired from "a direction" that ruled out Yemen. While Pompeo described the attack as "an act of war", Iran has said it would be "all-out-war" if it is attacked in response. In the middle of it all are attacked and hijacked oil tankers, and U.S. President Donald Trump's Twitter account that alternates from reminding the market there's "plenty of oil", the American forces were "locked and loaded" and a release of barrels from the Washington's strategic petroleum reserves could happen. Yet for all of that, Brent futures remain around ~$65 and WTI futures below ~$60, not least because the Saudis say they are working overtime restore production and would service clients, especially Asian buyers, from their own reserves. Newly appointed Saudi Oil Minister Prince Abdulaziz also claimed production is set to return to normal by the end of September. "The damage has been contained," he said, adding that 50% of the lost production has been restored. But with rumors of Saudi Aramco dusting up the paperwork for its long overdue initial public offering (IPO) that the market has been promised is coming since 2016, you wouldn't expect the minister to say anything else. Where from here? As I said on the BBC on Sunday (September 15), the immediate market volatility will not last and it hasn't because there is too much oil in the market. From the September 13 Brent closing price of $60.22 per barrel, noted prior to the attack, to current levels of ~$65, a gain of less than $5 appears relatively muted given the scale of what's happened. For it is not the here and now that matters to the market, but where from here that does. An attack of this magnitude simply cannot go unanswered or Saudi Arabia and its chief power broker Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman will appear weak, an impression he does not want to give. But Riyadh is finally getting hyperactive on the Saudi Aramco IPO front, a move craved by none other than the Crown Prince. Given where the oil price levels are, the threat of insecure infrastructure would add to the risk profile of the company, denting its hopes for a $2 trillion market valuation. So what could the Saudi response be? It is likely the Saudi Air Force with pummel Houthi rebel positions in Yemen with increased ferocity. But it is doing so anyway at a great human cost, and escalation would harm public sentiment further with little if any tangible gains. If an attack on Iran follows, we'll enter the uncharted waters of another conflict in the Persian Gulf. This would truly have the potential for an oil price spike of $10-15 per barrel, especially if there is damage to the Saudi East-West pipeline that runs from the Abqaiq, across the width of the Arabian Peninsula to the Red Sea. Complicating matters further is the historical Saudi reliance on U.S. backing and military prowess. So far Trump and Pompeo have only indulged in a war of words. Since tweeting U.S. forces were ready to target Iran should their hand be proven, Trump has hinted at "other" ways of hammering Iran, including further economic sanctions. Potency of these is questionable too, since the Trump administration has already squeezed Iran and its oil industry to a great extent with little room for anything that would have a further material impact hardliners' thinking. So for now, there is an eerie calm that's been reflected in oil futures shedding their gains from earlier the week. In the absence of conflict, there are hardly any reasons to believe Brent would average outside the $65-70 per barrel range in 2019, and could go yet lower in 2020. The so-called geopolitical risk premium isn't back meaningfully just yet, and physical crude traders remain in wait and watch mode. Something has got to give, but until then the market and its participants ought to keep calm and carry on.