Topline: Saudi Arabia’s crown prince Mohammad bin Salman has denied ordering the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, but took “full responsibility” for the crime committed by Saudi officials in a CBS 60 Minutes interview.   Tangent: MBS also spoke out for the first time about two crippling attacks on the country’s oil plants, calling for global action to “deter Iran” which Saudi Arabia has accused of being behind the attacks. He told CBS: “If the world does not take a strong and firm action to deter Iran, we will see further escalations that will threaten the world’s interests. Oil supplies will be disrupted and oil prices will jump to unimaginably high numbers that we haven’t seen in our lifetimes.”  Earlier this month, the kingdom presented “evidence” that it said showed that the drone and missile attacks on two Saudi Aramco plants, which took 5% of global oil production offline, were sponsored by Iran. Yemen’s Houthi rebels, who are fighting a Saudi-led coalition in the country, claimed responsibility for the attack. Crucial quote: Asked directly by O’Donnell whether he ordered Khashoggi’s murder, MBS said: “Absolutely not. This was a heinous crime. But I take full responsibility as a leader in Saudi Arabia, especially since it was committed by individuals working for the Saudi government.” Key background: Some 11 men have been charged with the murder of Khashoggi, who entered to Saudi consulate in Istanbul one year ago to collect documents for his wedding to Turkish academic Hatice Cengiz and was not seen again. His body was dismembered and the remains still have not been found. Saudi Arabia has claimed that “rogue” operatives were responsible for the grisly murder but some western governments and the CIA have claimed that MBS ordered the murder of Khashoggi, a rare dissenting voice on his effective rule of the kingdom.  The consulate building, located in Istanbul’s upscale Levent neighborhood, was reportedly sold weeks ago to an unnamed buyer who bought it for a third of its value, according to Turkish broadcaster Habertürk TV. 