In 1967, and in the very early days of the computer, a 1-megabyte hard drive priced out in the neighborhood of $1 million. Today it costs somewhere south of two cents. Notable about plummeting data storage prices so central to the computer sector is that the collapse, or presumed memory “glut,” hardly destroyed the industry. It instead powered the industry’s beautiful evolution. Incredibly cheap storage made the internet possible, not to mention the supercomputers that sit in our pockets of the smartphone variety. Stating what’s been true throughout commercial history, falling prices represent opportunity. The cheaper the cost of a good, service or commodity, the cheaper is resource access for the entrepreneurs whose intrepid tinkering drives progress. All of this rates discussion in consideration of periodic worries expressed by conservatives about the price of oil. Some fear that a collapsing crude price would bring on recession in the U.S., which on its own is odd. Lest conservatives forget, oil in fact did plummet in the Ronald Reagan 1980s, but the economy boomed. Oil similarly declined in the 1990s, and the U.S. economy similarly boomed. That it did was and is a statement of the obvious. Precisely because oil is a necessary economic input, it being cheaper freed up precious dollars to fund all manner of other experimentation, and subsequent advance. The ‘80s and ‘90s were hardly austere. Fast forward to the present, it’s said by some that increased oil production from Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq and Venezuela would bring on the mother of all oil gluts that would allegedly crash the price oil. The assertion is suspect on many levels. First, it presumes that the oil price is all supply and demand driven, as opposed to it being highly influenced by the value of the dollar in which it’s priced. In truth, U.S. oil production alone soared 50 percent from 2005 to 2013. This requires mention because the global economy was pretty average from 2005 to 2008, and seriously weak from 2008 to 2013, yet the price of oil nearly doubled from $50/barrel in 2005 to $97 by 2013. Oil hit an all-time high of $145 in July of 2008, but to show how very much the value of the dollar itself influences the crude price, readers should consider this: in the seven years leading up to July of 2008, the price of a barrel of oil in euros rose 198 percent, in Swiss francs 216 percent, but in dollars crude had spiked 459 percent. It’s all a reminder that when it comes to nominally expensive oil, a weak dollar frequently lurks. A weak dollar is logically a growth retardant for it existing as a tax on the very investment that powers growth in the first place. Assuming a rapidly declining oil price, far from a spark for recession, the latter would likely signal a healthier dollar that would exist as a magnet for investment. Looking back once again to the stronger, stable dollar 1980s and 1990s, the U.S. energy industry was largely non-existent, yet the U.S. economy and U.S. equity indices were soaring. But let's assume for a moment what’s not true, that the oil price is all a supply phenomenon, and that Saudi, Iran, Iraq, Venezuela et al start pumping oil with abandon and the price plummets. If so, great. While it’s probably not good for a U.S. energy industry that’s reliant on nominally expensive oil to operate profitably, the U.S. economy is hardly oil based. To be fair, the U.S. economy is way too advanced, way too dynamic, to be oil-based. That it is speaks to how brilliant a presumed “glut” would be for economic growth. Falling prices don’t suffocate an economy, rather they give it life by once again freeing up crucial resources necessary for the creation of productivity-boosting products and services. Looking back to the cost of memory, and the fact that it’s plummeted over the decades, would readers like to imagine how primitive the technology industry would be today absent a “glut” of memory? Considering long-distance calling, in the 1970s AT&T employed 1 of every 500 Americans, and it quite literally controlled 100% of the long-distance calling market. So expensive was long distance then that households closely examined phone bills, underlining particularly expensive long distance calls. Now we don’t even think about it thanks to competition that pushed down long distance to next to nothing. Was, or is AT&T’s less muscular economic presence a recession inducer? Readers know the answer. Assuming global production collapses the price of oil, the greatly shrunken cost of doing business will exist as a huge boost to the most advanced economy in the world. AT&T’s reduced muscle didn’t recess the U.S. economy, and neither would a smaller domestic energy industry. See the ‘80s and ‘90s once again. Of course the presumption that Saudi Arabia et al can control the oil market through production increases and decreases ignores oil price history. Figure that oil spiked in the 1970s, but fell substantially in the 1980s and 1990s. This requires mention in consideration of the belief that Saudi Arabia can, or used to be able to control the price of oil. If true, then it would have to also be true that the Saudi sheikhs were feeling pretty greedy in the 70s, only to become excessively generous in ‘80s and ‘90s, only to become greedy in again in the 21st century on the way to average oil prices that positively dwarf what prevailed in the final two decades of the 20th century. Not really. The dollar was strong in the ‘80s and ‘90s, but has fallen a great deal in the 21st century. Saudi Arabia’s power over the market, and OPEC’s more broadly, is well overstated. Still, let’s assume what’s not true, that the Saudis or OPEC could or can control the oil price, and that soaring production from Saudi, Venezuela et al could collapse prices. If so, good. A huge majority of Americans would benefit. But the bigger story here is that if somewhat backwards countries like the ones mentioned can control a market, it’s probably not one for the most economically advanced country in the world to be competing in. Which is the point that few dare make nowadays: fracking is a thing, and is the source of abundant U.S. oil production, only insofar as the price of oil is abnormally high. Basically an abnormally high oil price made that way by a weak dollar has made domestic oil extraction economic such that precious resources are being directed toward the production of what some of the most backwards countries on earth can also produce. It’s all a flashing signal that as opposed to plummeting oil bringing on a recession stateside, the previous scenario would in fact author the mother of all booms as crucial resources are directed away from what others can do, and into what wildly advanced American innovators uniquely can. In short, falling oil prices would be incredibly bullish for them erasing the work of the past so that new uses of vital human capital can be funded. 