Black Monday arrived at my doorstep last Friday when Trump threatened China, that he’d ban from our financial markets all their securities. My biggest position, Alibaba, promptly fell 9 points. You’d think Steve Mnuchin who came out of Goldman Sachs, would have dissuaded our president. Beggar thy neighbor gambits invariably prompt retaliation and disinvestment. Chinese operators own plenty of U.S. real estate so disinvestment becomes a deflationary force. Throw in trillion-dollar-plus holdings in U.S. Treasury notes, a stabilizing factor for us over the years. I know. We don’t need their capital now, but times do change. Leveraging institutional myopia takes much courage. When Black Monday cast its jagged shadow over the world, aside from Japan, major bourses declined more than ours. Everyone believed we’d export a huge recession. Instead, consumers kept buying. The country and the world grew far above forecast. Black Monday was triggered by a bad monthly trade balance statistic, but it proved the peak number, $17 billion. Our trade deficit early 2001 ran at $130 billion but nobody batted an eyelash. The Street dismissed Black Monday as an aberration caused by portfolio insurance hedging—insanity personified. The market did top out on August 26, 1987. It then sloughed off steadily for weeks. Academics don’t mention this. Again, interest rates were rising, over 7%, with a weak dollar and a stubborn trade deficit. Not exactly bull market metrics. Our Congress then thought insider trading was the gut economic issue of the decade. The Japanese minister of trade wagged his finger at us and said we were soft, undisciplined and uncompetitive. He pontificated just as Japan’s bubble was about to reach maximum circumference in the eighties. Decades later, Nippon still has not gotten over their foolish overinvestment in capital goods, real estate and even some buried, unreported bank rot. Call it Black Monday-like, or whatever, but volatility on the Big Board is our cross to bear as money managers. The last week in July, 2000 (Tech Bubble) the market sliced about 25% off valuation of so-called benchmark properties like Nokia, Texas Instruments and Applied Materials. End-of-cycle jitters for semiconductors and wireless handsets filled the air. Early 2001, they took Cisco Systems out to be shot. Same for Microsoft, early 2015. Now, it’s Micron Technology’s turn. Discount a new Gilded Age for stocks that started in the spring of 2009. Look at charts of 12-month price performance for out-of-sync properties like U.S. Steel, Alcoa, Schlumberger, Halliburton, even Exxon Mobil and Occidental Petroleum. They are disasters not waiting to happen. They’re here now, some cut in half or even worse latest 12 months. Same goes for high flyers like Netflix, Tesla and Nvidia, tarnished by earnings momentum issues. They may never come back. A century’s worth of market stats shows me that even when your entry point is top of cycle, if you remain invested for at least a decade, your rate of return exceeds T-bills and bonds. An entire industry, financial counseling, is based on such a premise, but think of all the heartburn in between. Pre-meltdown internet insanity near 1,600 on the S&P 500, this index traced a fat “W” formation. It touched down under 800 during the mini-recession late 2002. Then the market took off. Consider the market traded at 18 times earnings during 1972, not much different than in 2000 and today. Premiums for growth stocks ranged up to four times the S&P 500. Current premium looks to me at 1.5 times market valuation, a good working number.  What’s long forgotten is great growth stocks can turn into basket cases or also-rans. Eastman Kodak, Avon, Sears, Roebuck, Polaroid and Xerox come to mind. A strong profit margin is my leading indicator for a growth stock because it signifies intact product dominance. Apple phones, not Chiquita bananas prevail. I’ve searched desperately for a rationale for stocks now at 18 times earnings. They’ve been there before when interest rates ranged between zero and 4%. Actually, at a zero-interest rate, the market did sell at 10 to 12 times earnings because the economy dwelled in recession territory, no earnings story on the horizon. The United Auto Workers strike at General Motors is instructive. My guess is the company picks up more of the forward escalation in healthcare premiums while wage increases hang in the 3% to 4% range. Maybe less, because there’s no inflation in the system and productivity gains are hard to come by. General Motors looks cheap as a stock, under 10 times earnings power over a full cycle. But dividend-paying capacity is limited. No AT&T with a 5% plus yield and a dividend that inches up. Wage base as a percent of GDP for industrials past 20 years slipped from 68% of GDP to 60%. Blame Toyota and Honda. Offshore competition, particularly in the auto sector, is relentless, a way of life for all U.S. industrials, including Deere, Caterpillar and United Technologies. Boeing is an exception because it’s basically a duopoly with Airbus SE. Note Warren Buffett banged out holdings of Exxon Mobil, even IBM. No story, no great valuation disparity. My favorite Alan Greenspan comment is “When in the dark you make your way by probability.” When I came down to Wall Street in the late fifties, investment research existed in its primitive state. Tailored partners called their analysts statisticians, old ciphers left over from the 1920s. They poured over the dusty financial handbooks of Moody’s, Standard and Poor’s and Best’s. The Street confined itself to analyzing aged numbers. In the sixties, stocks sold at multiples averaging near 20 times earnings because interest rates snaked along at 4%. Inflation wasn’t an issue until Lyndon Johnson escalated the Vietnam War. It took the market years to wise up. When interest rates zipped up to 7%, valuation dove into low teens. Currently, we’re saddled with a Federal Reserve Board that thinks zero interest rates and zero inflation are a bad thing for economic growth. This is academic nonsense. The FRB should be advised by a handful of economists, not 400, because there’s no value added. In my corner of financial history, the marginal cost of capital determines valuation. At zero to negative interest rates players like me borrow to the hilt and invest in go-for-control deals, companies, capital spending projects and stock market speculation.  I’m an active arbitrageur of capital, borrowing at 2% to buy high-yield BB paper of five-years’ duration, yielding over 5%. So far, so good. My major position in AT&T equity is partially based on a yield disparity play, yielding 5.4% to the market’s 2%. Let somebody else indulge in gold, copper, steel, aluminum and crude oil futures in a slow-growth world. You’re damn right, Alan. I’m making my way by probability while the FRB wobbles like a defanged tiger. The case that deflation must inhibit consumer spending and capital goods investment stands on a shaky premise, a non sequitur. If anything, homebuilding and new home purchases should take off. Mortgage money at 3% to 4%, historically, is a once-in-a-lifetime bargain. Maybe, next, Trump bans from the Big Board any company whose management believes global warming is the world’s most serious issue. With ice floes in the Arctic rapidly diminishing in circumference, polar bears were sighted mating with grizzlies. They know the score. Prevailing conclusions in the country over 30 years repeatedly switched in a matter of months from recession and a feeble dollar to an overheating scenario with galloping inflation and a strong currency. Both proved erroneous, and our FRB as flummoxed then as it is today. I’m staying the course, but at 60% long, the remainder in BB debentures. Market valuation at 18 times earnings inhibits me. No oil, nor copper or gold. Growth stocks outperform value in a persistent low interest rate setting. Alibaba sells at 18 times forward Ebitda to enterprise value, a fair working number.  Sosnoff and / or his managed accounts own: Alibaba, Microsoft, Netflix bonds and AT&T. msosnoff@gmail.com 