Forward-looking updates from GeoQuant's high-frequency political risk intelligence platform. In an increasingly unpredictable world, GeoQuant forecasts the most commercially-relevant political events with unprecedented accuracy, combining our AI-powered machine with PhD political scientists to make binary predictions with long lead times (six months on average) and often counter-consensus conclusions. To wit, our current “Top Predictions” are summarized below, all of which were made well ahead of the market -- Dec. 2018, June 2019, May 2019, and June 2017, respectively -- and are all trending in the right direction. Iran-Saudi Arabia | Data Suggests Saudi-Led Retaliation Likely but U.S. Involvement Will be Limited Amid high uncertainty regarding the source and nature of the 14 September drone/missile attacks on Saudi oil facilities, the event has clearly steepened geopolitical risks associated with the Iran-Saudi Arabia conflict, shifting our Saudi-Iran bilateral “Contingent Risk” score toward a new, higher risk trajectory (per the graph below) and suggesting that some kind of Saudi-led retaliation on Iran is likely. That said, while U.S.-Iran Contingent Risk was already very elevated before the attack and is projected to remain so, a flat projection suggests the U.S. itself will not attack Iran, limiting the scope of retaliation. To be sure, this risk is significantly elevated over the past year, making uncertainty over a U.S. response higher than a year ago, and Iran-related Geopolitical Risk will continue to drive volatility in oil markets. But our data suggests the prospect of a major and sustained oil price shock from a U.S.-Iran war still appears unlikely. Spain | New Election Unlikely to Shake Up Polarized Parliament and Public Spain’s center-left Socialist-led minority government won a plurality of seats in a 28 April election but has been unable to form a government over the subsequent five months. With a 23 September deadline to form a government approaching, Socialist leader Pedro Sanchez is asking the public to return his party with a larger plurality after a second election, now expected on 10 November. With no new government in power, GeoQuant’s elevated Social Polarization Risk indicator reflects unhappiness all around with coalition alternatives. But polling suggests a new election will have a minimal impact on party strength; we therefore forecast another coalition formation standoff. The complication is Spain’s constructive vote of confidence rule, which requires the opposition to field an alternative candidate for prime minister. This protects a minority government from removal, especially when the extremes of the political spectrum must agree on any alternative candidate. As a result, obtaining initial support for a minority government becomes all the more difficult. Market Movements | Spotlight on Brent Crude/Iran Geopolitical Risk Iranian Geopolitical Risk has risen markedly following a 14 September drone attack on Saudi oil facilities by Yemen-based Houthi rebels; both Saudi Arabia and the United States have publicly stated that the attack was sponsored by Iran. With respect to oil markets, Iranian Geopolitical Risk and Brent Crude (price per barrel) have remained strongly positively correlated (r = +.72) on a historical basis -- specifically from June 2016 onwards (see first figure below) -- and with a 60-trading day rolling correlation posting similarly strong results over 2019/YTD (see second figure below). Given our forecast of rising Iranian Geopolitical Risk through year-end 2019 and the strength of the relationship between Iranian Risk and oil prices over the longer term, we highlight the potential for politically-driven risk of heightened oil prices over the coming months. The Month Ahead | Political Risk The figure below provides our 50-country forecast of top-line Political Risk for the month ahead (today through 18 October). Red (green) bubbles indicate increasing (decreasing risk). Full trend lines available on the app. Custom insights available for clients. TOP 5 (Upward-Trending Risk) | Venezuela, Ukraine, Bahrain, Turkey, Peru Bottom 5 (Downward-Trending Risk) | Syria, Egypt, Ecuador, UK, Poland