In July the U.S. economy saw 121 months of economic expansion, breaking the previous record. But with that good news comes a caveat: the economy is due for another recession. The Federal Reserve of New York has pegged the chances of a recession beginning next year at about 33 percent. This is based on the yield curve as a primary indicator, which looks at short-term versus long-term interest rates on government bonds. Economists use many indicators to predict downturns, and the current economic signals are mixed based on which you choose to look at. There are also two definitions of what makes for a recession. The traditional measurement is a decline in gross domestic product, a country’s total value of goods and services, for two consecutive quarters. The more general definition, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research, “is a significant decline in economic activity spread across the economy, lasting more than a few months, normally visible in real GDP, real income, employment, industrial production and wholesale-retail sales.” If and when a recession occurs, we can expect a few things to happen: unemployment will rise, working hours will be reduced and part-time work will increase, interest rates will fall, spending will decline and stock values will slump. With all this misery, however, comes one potential bright spot: innovation. After the Great Recession, entrepreneurship rates soared, creating new industries such as fintech to support them. After a great deal of dust settling and adaptation over the past decade, it’s been largely smooth sailing for fintech lenders in 2019. Billions of dollars in venture capital funds are flowing into fintech startups. And bank-fintech partnerships continue to flourish as fintech providers and traditional financial services firms seek increased symbiotic collaboration. But as online lenders have never faced a recession before, are they ready to ride out what may come? Lenders in particular can learn a lot about what the next recession could be like by looking backward. Sure, not all recessions are built the same, but we can learn by studying the effects of past deep recessions, or those that had an impact of -2.5% or greater to overall GDP. What happened: In 1929, more people started trading on the stock market. However, production had been declining and unemployment rising. In October of that year, investors began pulling out of the stock market, causing it to crash. Spending sunk and workers began to lose their jobs, cratering the economy. GDP decline: 26% Peak speculative-grade default rate: 15.4% What happened: The recession after the end of the Great Depression is considered the third worst of the 20th Century. The stock market crashed again in 1937. According to the Federal Reserve, it may have been caused by “a contraction in the money supply caused by Federal Reserve and Treasury Department policies.” Those policies included one that aimed to “to soak up banks’ excess reserves.” GDP decline: 10% Peak speculative-grade default rate: ~3% What happened: World War II had ended and the government significantly scaled back spending by $56 billion (1945 dollars). This led to a significant drop in GDP. GDP decline: 12.7% Peak speculative-grade default rate: Less than 1% What happened: Two major factors led to this 10-month recession: the end of the Korean War, and the government spending that went along with it, as well as the Fed raising interest rates with the aim of curbing inflation. GDP decline: 2.6% Peak speculative-grade default rate: Less than 1% What happened: A worldwide economic downturn triggered this recession, “fueled by a drop in unfulfilled orders for durable goods and a declining demand for commodities and other raw materials,” according to Time. GDP decline: 3.1% Peak speculative-grade default rate: Less than 0.2% What happened: The economy had already been experiencing inflation, shortages and lower spending when the energy crisis started in 1973, aggravating a “situation that was already precarious,” according to the NBER. Oil prices shot up significantly, leading to cutbacks in industries including automobiles and real estate. Retail sales slid, while interest rates rose. GDP decline: 3.2% Peak speculative-grade default rate: ~9% What happened: Two recessions rocked the economy in the early 1980s. The first recession took place over six months in 1980, caused in part by the regime change in Iran and the subsequent significant increases in oil prices. The next recession started in 1981 and lasted for 16 months. It began after the Federal Reserve sharply increased interest rates to try to stave off inflation. GDP decline: ~2.5% Peak speculative-grade default rate: ~2% What happened: The recession on most people’s minds as we consider the next one is infamous for a reason: it was the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. From the early 2000s, financial institutions started bundling and investing in risky mortgage loans. Then the real estate bubble burst around 2007, walloping the mortgage industry and the institutions that invested in it and shocking the global economy. GDP decline: 4.3% Peak speculative-grade default rate: 4.1% As we can see from this quick look through history, many factors lead to economic downturns, although typically the banking industry and government policies play a role. The question is, are financial institutions, including the new crop of online lenders, prepared for an impending downturn? Here are four things lenders should keep in mind as they prepare to weather the next recession: Online lenders can and should start preparing themselves for the next recession, whether it happens this year, next year or in five years. Those who prove adaptable to harsh economic conditions will be the ones most poised to lead when the economy picks up again and the next wave of financial innovators are born.