Crude oil moved from 55 to 63 in mid-September after the news of a drone attack on major petroleum facilities in Saudi Arabia – and then returned to 53 by the beginning of October. The sudden move broke above a significant downtrend line on the daily chart of the commodity leading to speculation at the time of even higher prices at the pump. It was odd to see the quickness of the blast upward and then the subsequent rapid selling. You might expect traders in the market to take a more cautious approach for a few weeks after seeing images of fires burning at processing centers and oilfields. For whatever reasons, the market seemed to be saying “don’t worry about it.” Although the Saudis claimed that Iran was “unquestionably” responsible, others noted how easy it seemed to have been for the drones to get past some of the best, most sophisticated defense systems on the planet. Also odd was how the attack came just before the Saudi Arabian oil company ARAMCO was about to kick off an initial public offering. Here’s how the sudden, peculiar up-and-down looked on the daily crude chart: The attacks came on Saturday, September 14th. You can see the jump in price from the Friday the 13th close to the Monday, September 16th high. Note how the downtrend line that connects the April peak with the subsequent highs is completely taken out. Then, within mere days, the price returns to well below that same downward leaning line. It’s hard not to have the sense that knowledgeable participants had just shrugged their shoulders in the “no big deal” sense. Here’s how the weekly price chart looks now: A break below that 50 level might suggest a test of the next lowest support level: 42. Those are the 2 spots where buyers took over from sellers on the most recent visits. For the longer-term perspective, here’s the monthly chart: The oil market’s been in a downtrend since the 2008 peak prices. A break below 42/40 might be the last stop before all the way back to 30. Anyway, those are the support levels on the monthly chart. I’m old enough to remember the “Arab oil embargo” of 1973/1974 and being forced to wait in long lines up and down the street outside of gas stations. This was when OPEC members from Arab nations banned exports to the United States in retaliation for its support of Israel. Fuel rationing followed and speed limits were lowered – and the price of oil skyrocketed 400% by the time the embargo was lifted in March, 1974. Maybe it’s the conditioning from having lived through that, but when I hear about explosions and fires at Saudi Arabian oilfields, I tend to expect much higher prices for longer periods of time – like more than just a day or 2. It seems things have changed. It’s also been my experience that, typically, lower crude prices combined with lower interest rates have tended to be bullish for stock markets, but maybe that’s changed as well. I do not hold positions in these investments. No recommendations are made one way or the other. If you're an investor, you'd want to look much deeper into each of these situations. You can lose money trading or investing in stocks and other instruments. Always do your own independent research, due diligence and seek professional advice from a licensed investment advisor.