The Group Chief Executive of oil giant BP (LON:BP) Bob Dudley has decided to retire following a near decade-long stint as the company's boss. In a statement confirming the widely rumored move on Friday (October 4), BP said Dudley will step down from his post following delivery of the company's 2019 full-year results on February 4, 2020 and will retire on March 31. Bernard Looney, current chief executive of BP's Upstream division, will succeed Dudley and join the company's board on 5 February. Dudley has been widely credited by the market for turning the fortunes of BP around, having dealt with the aftermath of company's Deepwater Horizon rig explosion and subsequent oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Including nine years as chief executive, Dudley has spent four decades at the oil and gas company. At the height of oil market slump in 2016, Dudley was among the first 'Big Oil' bosses to declare his vision of $30-40 break-even by 2021, a drive BP has since accelerated. The BP boss also famously described $100-plus per barrel oil prices as an aberration in 2017, and said his company was in race to a low carbon future rather than a race to renewables. Commenting on the announcement, BP Chairman Helge Lund said: "Bob Dudley has dedicated his whole career to the service of this industry. He was appointed Chief Executive at probably the most challenging time in BP's history. During his tenure he has led the recovery from the Deepwater Horizon accident, rebuilt BP as a stronger, safer company and helped it re-earn its position as one of the leaders of the energy sector. This company – and indeed the whole industry – owes him a debt of gratitude." Bob Dudley said it has "been the privilege of a lifetime" to serve BP and work in the industry for the past four decades. "I have worked with so many committed people from all over the world – both inside and outside BP – and I am enormously proud of all the things we have achieved together to provide energy for the world. "Bernard Looney is a terrific choice to lead the company next. He knows BP and our industry as well as anyone but is creative and not bound by traditional ways of working. I have no doubt that he will thoughtfully lead BP through the transition to a low carbon future." BP also said Lamar McKay, currently deputy group chief executive, has agreed to serve as chief transition officer. "In this new role, McKay will support the Chairman and incoming Group Chief Executive to ensure a full and orderly transfer of leadership. He will assume this new role immediately and step down as deputy group chief executive." 