The World Trade Organization took a rather jagged slice out of its projections for growth in world trade on Tuesday, adding to a cacophony of indicators that seem to portend a global economic slowdown on the horizon. It now predicts that rather than growing 2.6% this year, world trade will grow a rather anemic 1.2%. At the same time, the WTO forecast 2020 growth in trade would be 2.7% rather than 3%. Which led me to wonder: Have we somehow managed to put the kibosh on U.S. trade growth, after a pretty strong showing since the dawn of the “modern era” of globalization, marked by fall of the Berlin Wall and Deng’s opening of China in the late 1980s? Let’s look at the data. U.S. trade has slipped into negative territory this year, off a negligible 0.12%. That’s not great but that’s not the reason for concern. If the trend continues, it would make the third down year in just the last five years. In the 21 years prior to that, from 1993 to 2014, trade fell only three times, so this is a not-insignificant development. That’s particularly true when you look at why trade fell in those three years: 2001: Sept. 11 terror attacks with the United States already in a what appeared to be a mild recession. 2002: Continued fallout from Sept. 11 terror attacks, though trade almost completely recovered, as the accompanying chart shows. 2009: U.S. mortgage crisis that led to global economic recession. Why did trade fall in 2015 and 2016? Nothing cataclysmic like a terror strike on the U.S. or near meltdown of the financial system, that’s for sure. It was largely a steep decline in the price of oil – delivering good news for U.S. consumers wrapped in a bad-news headline. And that was largely due to a large-scale increase in U.S. hydraulic fracturing combined with a decision by the Obama Administration to end an almost complete prohibition on oil exports dating back to the Arab Oil Embargo in the early 1970s. Why is trade falling this year? That one is simple. U.S. trade is falling this year because of the trade war with China. U.S. exports to China are down 18.24% and U.S. imports from China are off 12.22% China has gone from being the United States top trade partner – a mantle it claimed when oil prices fell in 2015 because Canada, the longtime No. 1, is also the largest U.S. supplier of foreign oil – to rank as the No. 3 trade partner. Which begs the question: If the United States and China do not end a trade war between the world’s two largest economies, is there enough plasticity in the global economy for it to adjust, for trade lanes to shift to allow exports and imports to continue to grow? Or, does trade go into a period of continued stagnation interspersed with years of decline? Are we approaching another interruption in globalization, the first one in nearly a century? While the U.S. economy is not as dependent on international trade as, say, Singapore, China, Germany, India, Vietnam, South Korea and some other nations, it does matter here also. A global slowdown doesn’t benefit any of these countries, to be sure, but it doesn’t benefit the United States either, since those are important markets for U.S. exports. It’s not only farmers in this country who will be pinched, either. It’s the incredibly fast-growing oil-exporting industry. It’s medical device and supply companies. It’s companies that manufacture machinery for making computer chips. It’s is pharmaceutical companies. It’s bio-logistics companies, who export ever-increasing amounts of red blood cells, white blood cells, plasma and vaccines. It’s hundreds of thousands of truckers. It’s our nation's seaports and, to a lesser, extent, airports. It's owners of industrial warehouses. It’s rail lines and shipping lines. And, in the end, it’s you and it’s me, if our choice in products diminishes, if prices increase for those products. In the end, you never want sand in the gears of a machine. That’s where we are headed. We’re putting sand in the gears of globalization. We need not continue down that path, but it will take leadership from both the business and political communities globally to make a more cogent argument, take more meaningful steps to help those who so stridently oppose trade to better understand why this is such a dreadful course to follow.