There are plenty of reasons to be concerned about Houston’s economy: a national and global slowdown, a trade war with China, and political and economic problems emerging across Europe. For Houston, we add oil prices that have slipped from $65 per barrel in 2018 to only $57 through the first nine months of this year, and credit markets that have turned their back on the fracking industry. We are seeing an on-going credit crunch among local oil producers and service companies. Houston’s large oil base of 270,000 jobs is built on global engineering and manufacturing, and it is sensitive to the price of oil. How much does oil matter to the local economy? A combination of some careful statistical analysis and back-of-the-envelope calculations suggests that Houston’s growth is about 10% from long-term advantages such as adequate land and limited regulation, 60% driven by U.S. growth, and 30% a product of oil. It is oil’s volatility as much as its average contribution that makes it stand out in the local business cycle. So far, it looks like alarm bells are premature. The decline in oil prices is modest, and despite some of the big industry names involved, the number and size of bankruptcies is a small uptick from last year. Certainly, current credit problems are far from comparable to 2015-16. Houston’s current oil struggles probably mean a modest downshift in growth from the healthy levels of 2018 and early 2019, but growth is still running just below trend rates and near 60,000 jobs per year. Of course, if we were to combine current oil problems with global or national recession, all bets are off. A Decade of Boom and Bust The last decade of boom and bust for the local economy has been mostly the product of oil prices. Figure 1 shows annual values for Houston’s job growth, oil prices, growth in local oil jobs and national employment as measured by new jobs per month. Compare the stability of the national payroll figures during a decade-long national expansion to volatile oil prices that averaged $96 during the boom years of 2011-14, $46 during the 2015-16 bust, and $58 since the bust ended. During the bust years, Houston saw the loss of 74,800 oil-related jobs and no overall job growth despite strong U.S. expansion. Recovery from the oil downturn since 2017 has brought moderate growth in total payrolls at 62,300 jobs per year. What happened? Oil prices fell hard in 2014 with OPEC’s decision to withdraw as swing producer in world oil markets, which was intended as a preemptive strike on American fracking. It was a project that largely failed, with U.S. production shrinking by less than a million barrels per day in 2015-16. Then as soon as OPEC tried to raise oil prices in late 2016, U.S. fracking responded by soaring to all-time high levels by 2018 and beyond. OPEC learned two lessons: (1) It can’t afford to hold prices low enough for long enough to do damage to U.S. fracking, and (2) Holding prices too high is just an incentive for the U.S. to produce too much oil. The current OPEC approach is to find a path between high and low, and just low enough to at least slow progress in American fracking. Oil prices near $55 per barrel seem fit the bill, and with the help of a slowing global economy OPEC may be having some success in slowing the growth of U.S production. Credit Crunch and Industry Bankruptcies The second concern for Houston’s oil sector is the ongoing credit crunch, a leftover problem from the early years of U.S. fracking. The relatively new fracking industry is a clear break from the era of a few large oil companies dedicated to multibillion-dollar projects that take a decade to deliver. These producers form a competitive industry comprised of many small operators and price-takers; there are low barriers to entry; traditional drilling risk has largely disappeared; and there is a quick and certain return to the price incentives offered. The current problems are less technical and more financial, the end of dreams of easy riches from overleverage and unlimited supplies of cheap capital. The industry has repeatedly failed to deliver either on either adequate profits or promises of a quick killing in the stock market. The result has been Wall Street largely turning away from the business, with the left side of Figure 2 showing the S&P stock price indexes for both U.S. producers and services. Both industries have seen their stock prices tumble to levels under even the lows of 2015-16. Figure 2 also shows one practical consequence of the ongoing capital squeeze, with the rig count falling by more than 230 rigs so far this year, or 21.4%. Producers have been rationing capital all year in the face of limited access to capital and general economic uncertainty, cutting both capital spending and drilling activity. An upturn is not expected before sometime next year. The other consequence of capital tightening has been a rise in the number of 2019 bankruptcies. There were 33 producer bankruptcies through September of this year based on secured and unsecured debt of $12.98 billion, and 15 bankruptcies for service and machinery companies involving $7.81 billion. As Figure 3 shows, while these numbers are concerning, they are an uptick from 2018 and far from a return to the 70 producer and 72 service bankruptcies in 2016, with a combined $70.29 billion at stake. Given current trends, observers see industry-wide financial stringencies required by management for several years, but it is not a business that looks like it is about to go over the cliff. What Does it Mean for Houston? If we see a downward adjustment in oil prices from last year’s $65 per barrel to a steady $55 per barrel, and if credit problems remain contained to a relatively small number of specific firms, Houston oil problems should have limited consequences for its economic outlook. Using some statistical analysis, the oil price effects would work their way through the local economy by the end of 2022, and Houston’s oil sector would then stabilize with 5,600 fewer oil-related jobs than it had in late 2019, a loss of about 2% (See Figure 4). On average, each year the sector would lose around 1,700 jobs compared to prior expectations. In contrast, if oil price rose to $85, it would take Houston’s oil-related employment up by an additional 9,700 jobs before leveling off in 2020; $40 would have cost the region 16,500 oil jobs. It is the relatively narrow swing from $55 to $65 that limits today’s damage. Total employment in Houston by the end of 2020 would be 21,400 jobs fewer with oil priced at $55, or total employment falls each year by about 6,600 job relative to what was expected. Fortunately, this slowdown is modest and begins from very healthy levels in 2019, with 2019 annual growth running near at 62,900 jobs, and then falling to only 56,300 by 2022. It is a modest adjustment to a forecast that moves local growth from trend to just below trend. If Houston faces an economic setback soon, it is unlikely to be led by current oil problems. But as noted earlier, there are still plenty of other reasons to be concerned about the economic future. Certainly, all bets are off in the face of recession. So far in 2019, the U.S. economy has slowed, but is not struggling. Indeed, the slowdown seen so far was built into most forecasts of 2019 and beyond, such as the Survey of Professional Forecasters from the Philadelphia Fed. This forecast was used as the economic backdrop for the oil price calculations above, and if it proves wrong and we see recession, both oil markets and Houston will suffer the consequences. UH Energy is the University of Houston’s hub for energy education, research and technology incubation, working to shape the energy future and forge new business approaches in the energy industry.