Roughly 40 percent of US natural gas moves through pipelines owned by Kinder Morgan Inc (KMI). And the company has sizeable operations transporting crude oil and refined products, terminals that store 80 percent liquids and 20 percent bulk commodities, and a carbon dioxide manufacturing business that also produces oil and natural gas liquids. That breadth and scale of operations means quarterly results often highlight sector-wide trends. What we learn is not just key to investing in Kinder, but to the entire North American energy midstream sector. Kinder’s most important third quarter number was the 13 percent increase in natural gas transport volumes. That’s the seventh consecutive reporting period of at least 10 percent growth. And that trend will continue at least through next year, with the company’s Gulf Coast Express Pipeline and Elba Island liquefied natural gas export facility now operating. Gulf Coast Express is full to capacity with "associated gas," produced coincidently with Permian Basin oil. Delays winning some permits forced Kinder to postpone startup of a second Permian pipeline to early 2021. But the asset is already fully contracted and will immediately add to EBITDA when operating. There’s also a third gas pipeline in the works, now expected for service in 2022. Increased associated gas volumes are very bullish for petrochemicals as well as LNG. The startup of Elba Island is Kinder’s initial foray into this business, with the first of ten liquefaction units starting up October 4. The rest of the facility comes online in the next 12 months. But the company is already earning approximately 70 percent of the project’s expected revenue under a 20-year contract with Royal Dutch Shell (RDSA, RDS/A). Kinder’s gas pipeline and related infrastructure operations now contribute nearly 60 of company EBDA, increasing 8 percent in the third quarter. That share will rise further in the fourth quarter thanks to Elba Island and Gulf Coast Express. Higher exported gas volumes, however, won’t do much to soak up a supply glut greatly increased by associated natural gas flows. And that’s bearish for most rivals in the natural gas midstream business outside Texas. The combination of increased supply and milder weather has pushed the benchmark Henry Hub gas price nearly 30 percent lower than a year ago. And gas at some major hubs in Appalachia, Canada and the Midwest US sells less for than half of that. That’s pressuring producers to pull in their horns, potentially crimping midstream volumes and elevating dividend risk. Kinder’s Products Pipelines division posted solid 7 percent EBDA growth from a year ago, as higher volumes more than offset lower average re-contracted rates on certain systems. The company continues to find incremental opportunities for expansion supporting the Gulf Coast energy export business. At 18 percent of company EBDA, Products Pipelines is a key driver of results. But its solid numbers portend even better news at midstream companies focused on energy exports, notably Enterprise Products Partners (EPD). At about 16 percent of EBDA, Kinder’s Terminals results were flat with last year. The unit is also finding opportunities connected to the energy export business on the US Gulf Coast. Results should improve going forward from tank capacity additions, the disposal of remaining Canadian assets and as the more volatile bulk commodities business shrinks relative to liquids. Bulk volumes dropped by 6 percent during the quarter due reduced coal and pet coke. Kinder’s numbers continue to demonstrate storage is still a tough business. That’s not likely to matter for unitholders of troubled Buckeye Partners (BPL), as its acquisition by IFM Global Infrastructure Fund now appears set to close on November 1. But it does mean pressure on other storage focused companies. Kinder’s worst performing business, not surprisingly, was CO2 manufacture and sales, a division that also includes some production of oil and natural gas liquids. EBDA took a 36 percent hit from a 42 percent decline in realized NGLs prices, 15 percent lower crude oil prices and 7 and 3 percent declines in oil and NGLs production, respectively. The silver lining is CO2 is now less than 8 percent of EBDA, compared to more than 12 percent a year ago. And with management scaling back capital spending, it’s progressively less important to the bottom line going forward. There’s also still a possibility the company will sell its CO2 operations. Many investors would welcome such a step, though fetching a decent price in the current environment could be problematic. Meanwhile, the sizeable drop in realized selling prices for Kinder’s NGL output is potential bad news for gas processors with contracts structured on price as well as volumes. The big picture for Kinder’s results: Despite areas of weakness, overall operating goals and financial guidance were on track. That highlights the scale, financial power and operational diversification in the North American midstream business that are the company’s key underlying strengths. And it contrasts sharply with the elevated risks of rivals that are heavily concentrated on a single business line, and/or a group of customers. Kinder’s third quarter distributable cash flow rose 4 percent and covered the dividend by a 2-to-1 margin. Interest expense was cut 4.5 percent from a year ago, while debt to EBITDA was solid at 4.5 times. The pending sale of Kinder Morgan Canada (KML, KMLGF) and the US segment of the Cochin pipeline to Pembina Pipeline Corp (PPL, PBA) are on track to close by early next year. And despite what should be a temporary dip in project backlog to $4.1 billion following the start up of Elba Island and the Gulf Coast Express Pipeline, management is still guiding to new projects of $2 to $3 billion a year going forward. Management is still guiding to an increase in the quarterly dividend from 25 to 30 cents per share next April. That’s a yield of nearly 6 percent for investors who buy Kinder below our recommended entry point of 22. 