Florida Senator Marco Rubio wishes the MSCI Indexes were more strict in how they pick China stocks for their major benchmarks, but plucking out companies Washington deems bad is not part of their methodology. In July, MSCI CEO Henry Fernandez responded to a letter from Rubio inquiring about how they pick China stocks for their indexes. Rubio’s office said they only received the letter, dated July 26, on October 7 and responded on Monday. “Not only did MSCI fail to adequately address the concerns in my letter, but they also acknowledged that they do not conduct due diligence on Chinese companies to ascertain their relationship with the Chinese Communist Party, the Chinese government’s military and intelligence services, or national security or human rights-related abuses,” Rubio said in an email sent to the press on Monday. “It is deeply troubling that a company like Hikvision, which is complicit in China’s human rights abuses in Xinjiang and is on the Commerce Department’s banned Entity List, can get access to the U.S. capital markets through an MSCI index.” The so-called entity list is a list of foreign companies that require U.S. government approval before they can buy certain off-limits components from American suppliers. Telecommunications systems corporation Huawei is the most famous China firm that has seen its name on the list, then off the list over the last several months. Rubio and Democratic New Hampshire Senator Jeanne Shaheen are lobbying a federal pension fund holding retirement funds of members of the U.S. military to avoid investing in China. In particular, the Thrift Pension System is set to switch to the MSCI All Country World benchmark for its funds next year, which has a roughly 6% weighting to China. Rubio and Shaheen argue that American federal employees should not be invested in companies banned from doing business with the United States. Where China is concerned, Senator Rubio is asking MSCI to do something it doesn’t do with any index. The indexes are constructed without political bias, nor do they consider the intrinsic value of a company. Companies are mostly included based on their market capitalization, liquidity and free float requirements, depending on the index. In addition to asking MSCI to look harder on China, Rubio is questioning the wisdom of including in the index a list of Chinese companies that do not have the same auditing requirements as U.S. companies. MSCI has been increasing the weighting of China’s mainland equities, known as the A-shares, in its massive MSCI Emerging Markets Index. In his letter to Rubio, Fernandez wrote that MSCI’s decision to add the A-shares to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index “followed years of public consultation with institutions all over the world that invest in emerging markets, including clients located in over 80 countries, investors, regulators and governments,” he said, adding only that he acknowledged the concern about different auditing requirements. “Transparency and other standards in emerging market countries are not the same as the U.S.,” he says. “That is why we classify countries into developed markets, emerging markets and frontier markets, to acknowledge there are a variety of differences in these markets.” Nasdaq is considering a ban on Chinese small caps from issuing their initial public offering on their system due to concerns over fraud, among other matters. Meanwhile, the Thrift Pension System has said that it will go with what its financial advisors recommend as a better benchmark for their investors. The current index is U.S.-centric. MSCI says that investors can avoid China by choosing the MSCI All Country World ex-China and noted that active fund managers can easily avoid companies like Hikvision choosing to invest in another company instead. Passive funds like exchange-traded funds, however, will invest in whatever is listed in the index. For example, the U.S. has sanctions on Russian banks VTB Bank and Sberbank, and Russian energy firms Gazprom and Rosneft. All four constitute the top holdings in the VanEck Russia (RSX) ETF. Sanctions do not ban equity ownership in those firms. Investors who wish to avoid those stocks need to find an actively managed fund that specifically stays clear of sanctioned entities or can easily sell out of companies currently bumping heads with Washington. In essence, Rubio wants MSCI to change its methodology with regards to China, making sure that companies that have run afoul of Washington are removed from the index. Rubio’s office said Fernandez’s letter “failed to address the Senator’s concerns” about the risk of China stocks. They mentioned Kangmei Pharmaceuticals, which admitted to falsely overstating the value of its cash holdings by approximately $4.4 billion, as well as Hikvision. If military retirees do not want to invest in the MSCI All Country World Index because of China, they can choose other benchmarks that avoid China. Investors who want to hold China but don’t want to invest in Chinese state-owned enterprises, or those profiting from China’s surveillance state, can choose benchmarks with a corporate governance component. Or they can keep all of their money in the Americas, which raises concern about the potential for foul play in markets south of the border as well. Brazil’s oil company Petrobras has been a staple of nearly every pension fund with an emerging-markets mandate. Their previous government ransacked the company and inflated its books for years, leading to tens of millions of dollars in class action lawsuits. To this day, most U.S. pension funds invested internationally have Petrobras shares somewhere, even as many of its top executives, and the country’s ex-president, are currently in prison. For Rubio and other China critics, it’s not so much Petrobras-style fraud that they are concerned with. Most will tell you it is matter of national security—American investors are pumping money into companies that have stolen U.S. technology and are now competing with American firms—or a question of human rights. “It would be unprecedented,” says Asha Mehta, an emerging-markets fund manager for Acadian Asset Management in Boston. “Though we recognize these are unprecedented times. Similar concerns have been raised about Turkey, Russia and Saudi Arabia,” she notes. “So far no action has ever been taken against including their companies in an index.”