 On Thursday October 10, The Moscow Times reported that Rosneft’s ambitious Arctic plans could be put on hold if the company fails to secure 2.6 trillion rubles ($40 billion) in tax cuts from the Russian government. The state-owned oil company is looking to sell a 40% stake in one of its most ambitious Arctic endeavors: Project Vostok Oil, or East Oil. Those plans, however, seem to have encountered a major snag. According to the report, a group of Indian financers had agreed to invest in the ambitious endeavor, but their 15-20% stake was contingent on Rosneft receiving a massive tax break exceeding $40 billion over the next 30 years. Indian and Chinese companies make up the majority of foreign investors in the East Oil venture. The Vostok Oil project’s investor appeal lies in the opportunity to buy stakes in a host of valuable northern Siberian oil deposits currently managed by Rosneft. These include Payakhskoye, Lodochnoye, Tagulskoye, Vankorskoye and Vostochno-Taymirskiye. Foreign investors would also be invited to participate in Rosneft’s joint venture with British Petroleum (BP) – Ermak Neftegaz – which is currently a 51%/49% split in favor of Rosneft.   In terms of value, the entire Vostok Oil’s reserves are worth an estimated $15 billion at today’s oil prices. However, climate change may make the project much more costly. While oil extraction in the freezing Arctic has always been more expensive than similar projects in more temperate climates, thawing permafrost means that Russian oil and gas infrastructure is literally sinking into the ground.  With melting permafrost no longer able to support the heavy loads of pipelines and pumping stations, as they did in the 1980’s, lifting costs for oil in the region will only grow more expensive as operators are forced to adapt. Repairs to existing infrastructure and building to the new climate-adjusted construction standards will not be cheap. Subsequently, despite a queue of foreign buyers lined up, none are willing to commit until there is clarity on the promised tax breaks that would make these projects financially viable.  Rosneft goes tax-break hunting Earlier in the summer, it was reported that Igor Sechin – the powerful head of Rosneft and a close friend of Vladimir Putin – requested an unprecedented amount of tax incentives from the Russian government for the development of Arctic deposits. It was unclear as to why Sechin was requesting such a large amount until last Thursday, when it became known that Sechin had already agreed to sell a stake in the project to foreign investors on the promise of large tax subsidies from the Kremlin.  Rosneft is now calling for an exemption from royalties, a reduction in business tax from 20% to 7%, and a cut in insurance premiums from 30% to 7.6%, along with a complete exemption from property and land taxes. In return for such a generous deal, Sechin promised that Rosneft would invest between 5-8.5 trillion rubles ($80-135 billion) into the project and the region by the year 2050.  Such tax break would deny the Russian state much-needed revenue in a time of anemic economic growth, a problem for President Vladimir Putin who is committed to boosting the income of the poor.  In a meeting last week between the deputy prime minister, Dmitry Kozak, and minister for Arctic development, Alexander Kozlov, the Russian Ministry of Finance was again hesitant to give any further special project tax incentives beyond those already covered in the Russian tax code.  The Russian state needs to reconcile its need for tax revenues and the desire of powerful players to benefit from foreign investments in Arctic oil. But as demand for oil slows amidst the global energy transition and worsening climate change, the window to capitalize on Russia’s oil and gas developments is shrinking.  As often is such a case, the Vostok Oil decision will fall to one man, who is not known to say “no” to Sechin too often.  With Assistance from David Pasmanik  