On Friday, the U.S. Coast Guard announced its massive but troubled 25-ship Offshore Patrol Cutter program will be restructured.  With a total value of $10.5 billion, the Offshore Patrol Cutter (formally known as the Heritage (WMSM 915) class cutter) is a top Coast Guard procurement priority. The contract to build these mid-sized 3,500- to 3,700-ton cutters was awarded in 2016 to a scrappy underdog, Florida-based Eastern Shipbuilding Group. After restructuring, the Coast Guard will now only offer Eastern Shipbuilding options to build four of these $421 million vessels, and the rest– 21 ships–will likely be put out to bid.  The news has roiled America’s naval shipbuilding community.  The Coast Guard’s dramatic move has saved the Offshore Patrol Cutter Program. To win this contract, Eastern Shipbuilding Group had to beat several larger and more experienced defense contractors. As industry observers had started to wonder if Eastern Shipbuilding had bitten off more than it could chew, and pondered if the shipyard had offered the Coast Guard an unrealistically low price to win the contract, Eastern Shipbuilding’s Panama City shipyard was leveled by an enormous Category Five hurricane, Hurricane Michael, in October 2018. With a tough contract on the line and the halting hurricane recovery reducing chances the yard could recruit and retain enough workers, Eastern Shipbuilding Group was in an impossible position. If the contract had continued as planned, the Offshore Patrol Cutter Program would have gone downhill quickly. On June 30, the shipyard finally requested “extraordinary cost and schedule relief” from the Department of Homeland Security. And on Friday, just as Acting DHS Secretary Kevin McAleenan headed for the exits, that relief was granted.  Even though Eastern Shipbuilding Group is likely disappointed that it cannot build all the Offshore Patrol Cutters, the Department of Homeland Security has crafted an agreement where almost everybody, for once, actually wins. Eastern Shipbuilding Group survives as an operational concern, and the Offshore Patrol Cutter Program advances. But this sudden contractual shift also offers an enormous opportunity for America’s stressed shipbuilders, the Trump Administration and the U.S. Coast Guard. The Art Behind The Deal Back when the Offshore Patrol Cutter contract was inked in 2016, Eastern Shipbuilding Group had something of a swashbuckling reputation. The yard exploded on the scene during the Gulf offshore oil boom, emerging out of nowhere to become an amazingly successful commercial yard, building tugs and oilfield support craft at a blistering pace. As the 2009 collapse in oil prices shrank demand for Gulf Coast oilfield support craft, the Offshore Patrol Cutter contract offered the Eastern Shipbuilding Group a safe, long-term lifeline. So the yard bid aggressively, beating some seven original bidders and then ultimately trouncing Louisiana’s Bollinger Shipyards and Maine’s Bath Ironworks in the final round of competition. Questions still lingered. After the Offshore Patrol Cutter contract was awarded, observers wondered if Eastern Shipbuilding Group had overreached, underbidding the contract and offering the government too much for far too little. Industry rumors suggested that the family-owned shipyard was looking for the exits and seeking a buyer, and others wondered if Eastern might use a strategic bankruptcy to stave off the daunting contractual demands posed by the enormous Offshore Patrol Cutter contract.  As these rumors swirled in 2018, Hurricane Michael hit, leveling the Eastern Shipbuilding Group’s shipyard in Panama City. The situation was bleak. Even in the best of scenarios, hurricane recovery is very difficult for shipyards, and for a yard looking to staff up to meet tough U.S. Government demands, the task is almost impossible. Shipyards cannot compete. Hurricane recovery work creates enormous demand for trained personnel, and recovery jobs pay far more than even top-tier shipyard wages. Adding to the difficulties, the area’s relative isolation and the Trump Administration’s half-hearted reconstruction effort only exacerbated staff recruitment and retention challenges.  With relief, Eastern now likely gets a fresh start. Better price and schedule terms will enable the yard to rebuild without undue stress and grow at a rate the fragile and slowly recovering Florida Panhandle can adequately support.  On the other hand, the U.S. Coast Guard now gets an opportunity to rebid the program, letting major shipyards with excess production capacity engage in a vicious price shoot-out. Energizing this contest is the Navy’s next generation frigate program, as certain shipyards that are not entirely confident in their frigate bids face an existential crisis should they lose the frigate contest. To them, the Offshore Patrol Cutter would be a lifeline. Other wild-card yards that were cut out of both the Frigate and the Offshore Patrol Cutter at an early stage will also get a second bite at the apple, potentially driving down the per-hull price. The U.S. Coast Guard also gets the advantage of having two yards involved in the program—which adds more political cover to the program as well as increasing opportunities to inject added competition in the later stages of the procurement. Just as Maine’s Bath Ironworks and Mississippi’s Huntington Ingalls’ Industries Pascagoula yard compete for the successful Arleigh Burke (DDG 51) guided missile destroyer program, later tranches of Offshore Patrol Cutter purchases can potentially be competed out, saving taxpayer money. As Eastern Shipyard recovers, two builders may even offer the Coast Guard opportunities to surge production beyond the original twenty-five “Program of Record” ships.  The Trump Administration, while dealing their political allies a humiliating setback in the 2020 battleground state of Florida, is actually helping keep Eastern Shipbuilding alive. The yard gets a fresh start, and will now be able to operate within the limited capacity of the still-shattered Florida Panhandle. But the Trump Administration also gets a coveted slab of election-year pork. Shipyards in key 2020 battleground states like Bath Ironworks shipyard in Maine, the Fincantieri Marine Group shipyard in Wisconsin and, potentially, Philly Shipyard in Pennsylvania, should explore their options.  What Are The Risks? The primary risk for the Department of Homeland Security is that the industry rumors are true, and the Coast Guard discovers that Eastern Shipbuilding Group dramatically underbid. The nightmare scenario is that, even when re-competed in a tough price shoot-out, other industry players decide that the Offshore Patrol Cutter is unable to be built for the $421 million the U.S. Coast Guard and Congress originally expected. The second risk is that even if the cutter design provided by Eastern Shipbuilding Group can be built for about $421 million, that the design emerges as a compromised and unworkable vessel. There are industry concerns that the design is a patchwork of lowest-price, barely technically acceptable solutions, and that the cutter, if built as designed, will not perform well. Few high-quality naval shipyards are eager to be associated with a design they are not familiar with that they fear might result in a problematic “dud” of a ship.  Even though the Eastern design has passed a number of design reviews, there are already signs of buyer’s remorse within the U.S. Coast Guard. Some grouching is normal as any 3,500- to 3,700-ton warship design is a crazy-quilt of performance trade-offs and assumptions. But it might be worth taking another fast look at the requirements and the overall design to see if the vessel still makes sense, or if purchases of more smaller Fast Response Cutters and larger National Security Cutters offers the Coast Guard greater capabilities than the current Offshore Patrol Cutter design.  The design may also be obsolete. The strategic environment has changed enormously since the Offshore Patrol Cutter entered it’s detailed design phase. A design from 2013, built to meet requirements formulated at the height of the counter-terrorism era, may not be the right mix for today’s threat environment. Again, it might be worthwhile to use this programmatic pause to re-evaluate design assumptions and take a quick and hard look at the current Offshore Patrol Cutter design, evaluating modern concepts as well as the re-evaluating the detailed designs provided by the other two Offshore Patrol Cutter finalists, Bath Ironworks and Bollinger Shipyards. A lot has changed in the maritime over the past six years. Conclusion: Medium Endurance Cutters Are Needed The challenge for the Coast Guard is that there is little time to spare. The Service needs new mid-sized cutters. Several of the Service’s 29 existing mid-sized cutters are over fifty years old, unreliable and obsolete. And while a quick rescrub of the existing Offshore Patrol Cutter design and the requirements that back it are worthwhile, a potentially imperfect design may be better than the aged and rusty alternative. The Coast Guard’s mid-sized cutters are just too old and infirm to do the job they need to do.  The Offshore Patrol Cutter, like the existing mid-sized cutter fleet, is meant to provide the majority of offshore presence for the Coast Guard’s cutter fleet, eventually filling the gap between the larger National Security Cutter and the Coast Guard’s smaller Fast Response Cutters. The Coast Guard has labored mightily in keeping their fleet of decrepit mid-sized cutters on the line for decades more than planned. Today, the Coast Guard has managed to bring both their new large and small cutters online, and both are making enormous differences—their modest yet modern capabilities are helping the Coast Guard defend American sovereignty at sea, enjoying a high rate of at-sea drug interdictions, halting more encroaching illegal fishermen ever before, and helping the Coast Guard punch above their weight. A modern mid-sized Coast Guard cutter would help the service do even more, and, so far, the Coast Guard is doing exactly what it needs to do keep the Offshore Patrol Cutter on a successful path. With some luck and savvy leadership, it can only get better from here.  