Non-OPEC supply is set to exceed crude oil demand over the next half-decade courtesy of a flood of U.S. shale barrels, according to none other than OPEC itself. In its annual observations on the direction of the global oil market published on Tuesday (November 5), the 14-member producers' group cut estimates for the amount of crude it will need to pump over the next five years, thereby admitting that its market share will shrink until 2024. "At the global level, growth is forecast to slow from a level of 1.4 million barrels per day (bpd) in 2018 to around 0.5 million bpd towards the end of the next decade," OPEC noted in its keenly-followed World Oil Outlook 2020 report. In terms of headline growth, OPEC has lowered its projections for global oil demand growth to 104.8 million bpd by 2024, and to 110.6 million bpd by 2040. Only problem, as it acknowledges, is that U.S. shale producers will continue to flood the market. "The main driver of medium-term non-OPEC supply growth remains overwhelmingly U.S. tight [shale] oil," OPEC noted. The producers' group predicts that by 2025, U.S. oil output, driven on by shale, would have risen by over 40% to a level of 17 million bpd; an upward revision of 3.1 million bpd over its forecast in last year's market assessment. Other major sources of non-OPEC crude include Brazil, Canada, Guyana, Kazakhstan and Norway, but the U.S. uptick could see American crude meeting a fifth of global demand within four to five years. All the while, OPEC expects demand for its oil to slide by about 7% over the next four years, dropping to an average of 32.7 million bpd in 2023. That implies OPEC's current share of the global market of around 35% will shrink to 32% by 2025. The observations present a dilemma for the producers' group as it is working in concert with ten Russian-led non-OPEC producers to keep 1.2 million bpd off the market in a bid to support the oil price. The agreement is in place until March 2020 and is due to be revisited when OPEC and participating non-OPEC crude producers meet in Vienna, Austria on December 5-6, 2019. Participating producers are likely to fret over their declining market share and inadvertent support for U.S. margin producers. And while rival suppliers are seen to be hurting OPEC, its report is pretty sanguine about the future of oil predicting that global crude consumption will continue to grow until at least 2040. Sidestepping market conjecture in certain quarters that oil demand will "peak" by 2030, OPEC said its demand reduction forecast was more indicative of a weaker global economy rather than a move away from crude. Oil will remain the largest contributor to the energy mix, according to the producers' group, at over 28% by 2040, down from 31% in 2018. Natural gas is expected to become the second-largest energy source reaching a share of 25% in the total primary energy mix in 2040. "Demand increases for natural gas will come primarily from Asia, led by China and India, as well as OPEC Member countries," OPEC said. 