The prognosis for the U.S. coal sector may not be positive. But the outlook for natural gas is encouraging. It is not just a dim domestic picture for coal but also a bleak one for its overseas’ sales. Both China and India are cutting their coal exports while increasing their use of natural gas. There are several ways to slice this information, with the most obvious being that the United States is in a position to export its advanced carbon capture and natural gas drilling technologies. At the same time, this country is in a position to sell its liquefied natural gas, or LNG, to Asian nations. The problem, of course, is that the current tariff battle between the United States and China could have long-term implications — on both natural gas and coal exports. “A recovery in domestic coal demand is not likely,” writes Samantha Gross, a fellow at the Brookings Institution. “Inexpensive natural gas and renewable power are not going away. New coal-fired generation capacity is much more expensive to build and more difficult to site and permit than natural gas or renewable facilities. Uncertainty about the future of climate and environmental regulation adds to the challenge, along with the potential that older coal plants will become obsolete …” The International Energy Agency is predicting a 3% decline in coal consumption going forward. In fact, China’s own National Energy Administration reported that it will close about 8,600 megawatts of coal capacity by year-end, which is equal to about 1% of its energy mix. Coal makes up about 59% of China’s electricity portfolio, a bit less than in previous years. And BP said in its annual energy review that China’s coal use will fall to 35% in 2040, although it will remain the world’s biggest coal user at that time. Meantime, China’s natural gas demand will jump by 30% between now and 2035, or 300 billion cubic meters. That’s according to PetroChina, which also says that because China will continue to rely on coal, it will be also deploying advanced coal technologies. A Reuters’ story says that Russia’s Gazprom and PetroChina have inked contracts to secure the gas. Gazprom will start off supplying 5 billion cubic meters next year with the goal of providing as much as 38 billion cubic meters. LNG is Gold The same story says that China used 280 billion cubic meters of natural gas last year. That is nearly 8% of the global consumption. The U.S. Energy Information Administration adds that imported LNG made up 45% of that total. China’s goal, the agency notes, is to produce 20 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas. “Natural gas production has recently grown in China,” the administration says, “largely because of increased development in low-permeability formations in the form of tight gas, shale gas, and to a lesser extent, coalbed methane.” India, meanwhile, is planning to cut its coal imports by a third over the next five years — part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s goal of growing the country’s gross domestic product by $5 trillion during that time, reports Bloomberg. Natural gas makes up roughly 6% of India’s energy demand, although the government expects to increase that amount to 15% by 2030 at coal’s expense. The same story goes on to say that India has set such lofty objectives in the past, only to miss them because of its inadequate infrastructure that is needed to move those natural resources. To that end, the government is investing $60 billion in natural gas pipelines as well as LNG import facilities. As such, Exxon Mobil Corp. entered into a contract with IndianOil LNG. “What really matters is how we accelerate India’s access to affordable, cleaner energy," says Bill Davis, lead country manager, South Asia, ExxonMobil, in a release. “We see great potential here, and are delighted to join forces with IndianOil to unlock lasting value for India.” While the future of the coal sector is dark, the potential for U.S. LNG exports is bright. The U.S. Energy Information Administration, if fact, reports that such sales doubled between 2018 to 2019 because more LNG facilities coming online in this country: Louisiana-based Sabine Pass LNG and Cameron LNG, Texas-based Corpus Christi LNG and Maryland-based Cove Point LNG started up in the first half of the year while Texas-based Freeport LNG and Georgia-based Elba Island LNG became operational in the second half. The energy administration says that it anticipates U.S. LNG export capacity to reach 8.9 billion cubic feet per day by the end of 2019. That is up from 4.9 billion cubic feet at the end of 2018. The Edge Absent a trade war, the United States could be exporting 110 billion cubic meters, says the International Energy Agency in Paris. Chinese gas demand is forecast to grow by 60% between 2017-2023, all of which is tied to China’s domestic policies to reduce local air pollution by switching from coal to gas. The tariffs signal “the extent to which energy relations and trade are becoming politicized—which is a bigger concern for long-term projects and for energy security, undermining confidence in an open market for energy and LNG,” says Nikos Tsafos is a senior fellow with the Energy and National Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C. Coal is not coming back. Natural gas is not only replacing it in the United States but it also has the potential to supplant some of it overseas. The question is whether this country will be in a position to either sell it or to help others produce it. Right now, the United States has the edge but if the trade war is prolonged, it will lose its competitive advantages. SEE ALSO: – Carbon Capture Is A Good Thing – Trade War Could Wound Domestic Energy Producers – Who Is Winning The Trade War?