Stick around long enough and all bad ideas have a way of repeating themselves. The latest is the attempt to cut the cost of expensive medication by having the government negotiate prices. It’s deja vu all over again. In the 1970’s OPEC nations punished the USA for support of Israel during the Arab-Israeli war by imposing an oil embargo. President Nixon enacted price controls on oil and gas, contributing to a shortage and long lines that wrapped around the block. President Carter described the oil crisis as “the moral equivalent of war.” Responding to the shortage forced rationing whereby cars with a license plate ending in an odd number could only purchase gas on odd dates, and even numbers on even dates. To reduce consumption the maximum highway speed limit was cut to 55 miles per hour and daylight savings time was extended throughout the year. These short sighted “solutions” failed to recognize the cause of the gas crisis was not the speed limit, hours of sunshine nor the size of gas lines. The problem was the USA had gone to sleep from years of cheaper foreign oil prices, and like an addict had become more dependent on imports rather than develop energy independence. None of these gimmicks led to more oil nor cheaper prices. It was not until domestic oil production increased and consumers purchased more energy efficient cars that the US became more in control of its own economy. Another attempt to control costs and inflation was imposed by Nixon by freezing wages and the price of consumer goods in 1971. He also created two government panels: a "Pay Board" and a "Price Commission," to monitor and control wages and process. Eventually farmers started killing off livestock as they realized it was more cost effective to lose the animal than to lose money in a controlled economy. The government controlled measures were initially very popular in the short term, but economically harmful in the long term with stagflation, double digit interest rates and a recession. Here we go again. Recently, the Energy and Commerce Committee passed a bill along partisan lines that requires the secretary of HHS to negotiate prices on the top 250 medications for which there is no generic alternative. Drug companies that do not enter into the negotiations would be fined 75% of their gross sales of the drug from the previous year. The Congressional Budget Office estimates it will save Medicare $345 billion between 2023 and 2029. Sounds pretty good so far, right? The CBO also estimated a reduction in 15 new drugs coming to market over that same time period. Ranking member Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) warned of the impact on drug research “what we do know is up to 15 medicines – and some of us believe many more – will never enter or leave a lab or a trial or find their way to a sick or dying patient. One new cure stopped is one too many.” I fully understand action is needed to reduce the rising costs of medication. But like price controls of the 1970s, does this bill really address the problem of the high cost of healthcare which has risen steadily for decades at a rate faster than inflation? No. Congress would do far better to address healthcare costs comprehensively rather than piecemeal. Annual healthcare costs in the US tops $3 trillion. Improving health, early detection, and early treatment saves money. Early treatment of diabetes, for example, increases annual spending for insulin and medications, but also saves an estimated $6,400 in hospital costs per patient per year. Chronic illness care costs double when there is a dual diagnosis of depression. Integrated care models that treat behavior and physical health together decrease costs and improves outcomes. States with redistribution programs for unused prescription drugs realize a cost savings, however nearly half of those states which passed laws still do not have functioning or operational programs. If unused drugs were safely distributed, the annual saving in California alone exceeds $700 million. Another study found the annual costs per patient of wasted medication exceeded $1,300. Severe limitations have been placed on pharmaceutical companies to stop the gifts and trips for direct marketing to physicians. A recent report revealed 2,500 physicians receive half a million dollars per year from drug manufacturers and medical device companies, and 700 doctors receive over $1 million per year for promotional talks and consulting for drug companies. Hospitals can no longer get pizzas delivered by drug companies for doctor lunches for fear it would influence prescribing practices. If pizza influences unnecessary prescribing, what impact would a million dollars have? The best cost savings in drugs, are the drugs never prescribed. Unnecessary prescribing costs top $200 billion per year. One third of antibiotics prescribed are unnecessary according to the CDC. Many patients still receive prescriptions for medications, followed by drugs to treat the drug side effects and drugs to treat the side effect drug’s side effects. It is maddening. Changes in care and prescribing practices saves more money and improves the quality of care than the current bill before Congress. If lawmakers really want to lower the costs of prescription drugs, I suggest they go back to the drawing board, work in a bipartisan manner and fix the problem, not the price. 