Along with slower global demand growth, surging U.S. oil production has been the primary bearish factor in the oil market. Per U.S. Department of Energy numbers, domestic crude output is at all-time records of 12.6 million b/d, some 80% of all U.S. liquids supply. The industry has deployed constant technology and efficiency gains to compensate for less CAPEX investment and drilling. To illustrate, since July 2018, even as the total number of oil-directed rigs has fallen by more than 20% to the 685 range, crude production has still risen by another 1.6 million b/d. This is a 16-month increase equivalent almost equal to all of what Mexico is now producing. Released yesterday, the U.S. Department of Energy’s November STEO has crude output rising to average 13.3 million b/d in 2020, up from 12.3 million b/d this year. And even longer-term, the also just released International Energy Agency’s World Energy Outlook 2019 reports that the U.S. will account for 85% of global oil production growth through 2030. Let’s be clear, however, non-stop growth in U.S. crude oil production isn’t desirable or realistic. But especially since new U.S. demand is limited (although the downside to usage is limited too) a key bolstering factor for the industry will be exports. With oil still the world’s most vital fuel, the U.S. became a net oil exporter last December for the first time in nearly 75 years. By 2022, crude exports are supposed to more than double to 6 million b/d; by 2024, the U.S. could be the world’s largest crude oil exporter. We are quickly becoming a stable and predictable supplier to help meet non-stop rising global demand. In particular, much more oil usage in plastics manufacturing, plane travel, and SUVs is assured. In September, the U.S. Department of Energy projected that global oil consumption jumps another 20% by 2050 to over 122 million b/d - explaining why oil investment is a totally legitimate and essential enterprise. Those demanding an immediate end to “the oil age” confront the ultimate Catch-22. Any slowdown in U.S. oil production could increase prices, which would bring back more drilling and more production. For example, WTI prices at $65 per barrel would provide a major lift for producers and put a lot more oil back into play. And any drop in prices would simply encourage more demand while de-incentivizing the use of non-oil energy options. For the U.S., we surely know that the oil is there: our proven reserves continue to balloon - with even more available as prices go up and technologies continue their relentless advance. Just year, we had the country’s biggest oil discovery ever, located in the Permian basin which is already yielding 37% of our crude. Read more: The U.S. Department Of Energy Says More Oil, More Natural Gas. U.S. Shale Oil And Natural Gas, Underestimated Its Whole Life. U.S. Oil Production Will Continue To Grow.