Saudi Aramco has set an indicative price range for its initial public offering (IPO) that points to the state-owned oil and gas giant being valued between $1.6 trillion and $1.7 billion; a range well short of the $2 trillion valuation sought by Saudi Crown prince Mohammed bin Salman. Giving details on Sunday (November 17), Aramco said its IPO plans include selling 3 billion shares or 1.5% of its equity at an indicative price range of 30 Saudi riyals ($8.00) per share to 32 riyals on Saudi domestic exchange Tadawul. It implies that Aramco could raise as much as $25.60 billion should the top end of the range be achieved, thereby beating Chinese e-commerce firm Alibaba's raise of $25 billion in 2014 in New York. Financial analysts had projected a wide valuation range for the Aramco IPO of between $1.2 trillion to $2.3 trillion, according to figures published by Bloomberg. Despite the lower valuation, the IPO could be the world's biggest. Aramco management would embark on domestic marketing this week, but the company declined questions on whether it would market the shares in lucrative financial hubs such as London or New York, saying no decisions had been made for international roadshows yet. Separately, newswire Reuters reported that none were being planned citing sources familiar with the discussions. Saudi citizens are being offered 0.5% of the company and have until November 28 to subscribe to the IPO, while institutional investors can do so until December 4. Aramco finally announced concrete plans for an IPO on November 3, nearly four years after the idea was originally suggested by Crown Prince Mohammed. It was aimed at raising capital to diversify the Saudi economy away from oil as part of his 2030 vision. Initial market rumors of a dual domestic and international listing of around 5% of the company’s equity also fell by the wayside with the passage of time. The company attributed the delay to its IPO timetable to processes and efforts required to acquire a 70% stake in petrochemicals maker Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC). Investors can take comfort that Aramco remains the world's most profitable company with a planned dividend of $75 billion for 2019-20, more than five times higher than that of the S&P 500's biggest company Apple. And the lower of the headline valuation would still comfortably beat the world's largest integrated international oil company ExxonMobil which has a current market capitalization of ~$300 billion. However, investors will have to contend with a higher risk profile, given the company would be a proxy play on the oil price which has remained lackluster in recent years slumping from levels above $110 per barrel in 2014 to its current level of above $60 per barrel using Brent as a benchmark in light of rising U.S. production. Many forecasters expect global demand to slow from 2025 given the rising usage of electric vehicles and measures by several governments to lower their carbon footprints. Aramco facilities and infrastructure could also get caught in Middle Eastern geopolitics, given Saudi Arabia's escalating regional rivalry with neighbor Iran. On September 14, its facilities were targeted in drone attacks claimed by Yemen's Houthi rebels, but were blamed by the West and Riyadh on Iran, a claim Tehran denies. The attacks initially knocked over 50% of Saudi output, but the kingdom restored the balance of supplies sooner than the market expected.