When the oil producers' group OPEC first floated the idea of production cuts in the fourth quarter of 2016 whilst staring at an oil price slump, the hope and expectation was not only that the move would stem the price decline but also nudge it higher. Its stance was boosted further following a subsequent deal largely brokered by Saudi Arabia and Russia that saw the latter lead 10 non-OPEC crude producers to join hands with 14 OPEC members in taking barrels off the market to support the price. That deal still stands, until March 2020, with a stated ambition of keeping 1.2 million barrels per day (bpd) in output off the global supply pool. It will be reviewed at the OPEC Ministers' meeting on December 5-6 in Vienna, Austria, in very trying times for the oil market. When the idea was a first suggested, some had unrealistic expectations of a Brent price uptick to $80 per barrel. But as months passed without much success, a more realistic figure of $65 was touted around, even if OPEC never officially comments on its target price. At the ongoing Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition and Conference (ADIPEC) 2019, in the United Arab Emirates, the mood among Middle Eastern oil producers is somber. Despite all of the efforts of OPEC and its Russian-led allies – dubbed OPEC+ – even maintaining $65 has proved elusive at times. The much talked about rise in U.S. shale production is partly to blame, with headline American production tipped to hit 17 million bpd by 2024, going by none other than OPEC’s own forecast. Less talked about are the incremental barrels flowing in alongside American ones from other non-OPEC sources like Brazil, Canada, Guyana and Norway, to name a few. It's not as if OPEC has not stuck to its pledge. In fact, according to the latest S&P Global Platt's survey, it pumped 29.71 million bpd in October. While the level was up 1.26 million bpd month-over-month, cut compliance stood at 141% for 11 members with quotas. Regina Mayor, Global Sector Head, Energy and Natural Resources at KPMG, said: "It is great that OPEC is finally waking up to the fact the U.S. shale production is real and it is here to stay. Problem for the producers' group is that it is waking up to that reality a little too late, or perhaps little bit later than the market would have liked. "OPEC's problem now is about incrementally monetizing their resource in a complicated supply-side equation, even if we express some very valid skepticism about U.S. production shooting up to 17 million bpd. In fact, I do view American production tailing off this year with producers' seeing diminishing returns stateside. But be that as it may, that doesn't make OPEC's challenge any easier because America has become the world's buffer producer." Mayor added that whether WTI or Brent is the preferred benchmark, producers of all stripes would like the oil price to be $8-10 per barrel higher than where it is today. Unfortunately, for OPEC, its rushed attempt to do precisely that has seen it lose market share falling to its lowest on record since 2014, coming in at a third of the global market. At the same time, the move has improved U.S. margin producers' fortunes and those with viable acreages have put more barrels on the market. The tricky market situation is of OPEC's own making, said Dr. Carole Nakhle, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of energy consultancy Crystol Energy. "With oil prices appearing persistently low back in 2016 – OPEC went on interfere with market forces towards the end of that year in what was then described as a temporary move. But they have been rolling the cuts ever since bereft of an exit strategy. "Returns for OPEC have been questionable with a loss of market share, while non-OPEC market rivals, not just U.S. producers, have gratefully accepted relatively higher prices. That's the reality OPEC is having to live with. The situation is unlikely to change unless there is a major supply disruption and/or collapse in non-OPEC output. Such a scenario while not implausible appears remote, and even the temporary Saudi outage in the wake of drone attacks on its facilities did not spark a sustained rally." Unsurprisingly, most soundbites at ADIPEC point to a lackluster rollover of OPEC+ production cuts at the current level. But some within OPEC hope what's required from a supply-demand balance perspective would become clearer over the next 12 months, predicated on average global demand growth of 1.2 million bpd. Among them is UAE oil minister Suhail Al Mazrouei. Speaking at ADIPEC, Mazrouei said: “Hopefully in the future, oil supply and demand permutations will be clearer. The direction of where and when that balance occurs in the market is coming. We have been challenged year-on-year to take proactive decisions and have been able to move forward despite the diversity of OPEC+. In December, we are expecting all member countries to come to the meeting with their governments' endorsement." Oman, a regional producer among the non-OPEC ones participating in the production cuts, had its oil minister Mohammed Al Rumhy tell ADIPEC: "Extension [of the cuts] is probably likely. Deeper cuts are probably unlikely unless things happen in the next couple of weeks." Deeper cuts support non-OPEC marginal players, while opening up up the taps risks collapsing the price in an already fragile climate. A rollover of the cuts it might well be and so it goes, more in hope than expectation with a tinge of self-inflicted damnation. 