We’ve been hearing “electric vehicles are the future” for so long now that it has almost become cliché, but a small avalanche of news on Tuesday seems to indicate that the EV wave continues to gather strength - and it could become a tsunami. Tuesday began with word that Chinese-built Tesla Model 3 units are now emerging from Telsa Gigafactory 3 near Shanghai, incredibly about ten months after shovels first turned dirt at the site. A lengthy YouTube video (below) in Chinese with English subtitles claims to show a new Model 3 made at the plant, including an in-depth drive evaluation and detailed examination. The professional video has credits that include an apparent sponsorship by Chinese megacorporation Tencent. The host, who posts on Twitter as Yan Chang, says he was “honored” to be the first to drive the domestic Model 3, and claims the only difference between the American and Chinese Model 3 sedans is rear badging on the car, including a “Model 3” badge in English and another in Chinese. American Model 3 sedans have no badges. He calls the feat of getting the car (and the factory) made in such a short time a “miracle” and says every other detail, including the battery components, design and software, are identical to American models (the OS is in Chinese, of course). He does note that the Chinese Autopilot system is a more basic version than the more robust American version’s capabilities. Forecasts by Tesla and others had indicated that cars could be rolling off the Shanghai lines at about this time, which is none too soon for Tesla. China will be a hugely important market for the electric-only carmaker, and making the cars in-country will help Tesla avoid the chaos of tariffs and trade wars that have thus far made American-built Tesla models hugely expensive in China. But Tesla - and Elon Musk – have enormous brand caché in the country, and unsold inventory is not expected to be an issue anytime soon, especially with the now much more affordable domestic units ready to take on existing competition from established Chinese players such as BYD and upstarts like Nio. China also extends purchase incentives on electric vehicles as it pushes hard on an all-EV future, and imported American-made Teslas were not eligible for those rebates. That’s about to change for China-built Model 3 buyers. Tesla still has to get a “manufacturing certification” from the Chinese government, but part of that process includes showing that the cars are indeed being made at the plant, so it appears that will be a formality taken care of by year’s end. Tesla’s presence is unique - for now - in the Chinese market as the only wholly-owned and operated American car company operating within the Communist country’s borders. Ford, GM and others have had to “partner up” with a domestic carmaker in order to penetrate the market; Tesla’s complete independence is unprecedented and signals the strength of the brand within China. How Musk pulled it all off, including the truly near-miraculous timeline for the gigafactory buildout, will be the stuff of business history. Perhaps the bigger news was that Elon Musk wasn’t in China to celebrate on Tuesday, but in Germany, possibly to dominate. Musk has decided that Gigafactory 4 will be located near Berlin. Speaking at an Auto Bild ceremony in Germany, Musk praised German engineering prowess and said that the new German mega-facility will also include a vehicle design studio. In a tweet, he added the gigafactory would “build batteries, powertrains & vehicles, starting with Model Y.” No timetable, cost or exact location (outside of it being near Berlin’s new airport) was detailed by Musk, but the announcement, while not wholly unexpected, must have Mercedes, Volkswagen and BMW quaking in their boots. While it’s unlikely Tesla will be able to raise a gigafactory in Germany in under a year (and for the same money) as it did in China, the spectre of having the world’s leading luxury electric-only carmaker plant its flag near Berlin should provide impetus for the German giants to stop playing about with big ideas and start making some actual competitive electric cars. After what seems like a decade’s worth of concept models and promises that something electric is going to eventually happen, having Tesla set up shop with inevitable volume EV production on the horizon should give the legacy automakers a sharper focus. We shall see. Indeed, Volkswagen seems to be the farthest along with their plans in light of the lashing they continue to take from Dieselgate and their subsequent pledge to essentially electrify their entire vehicle line. Which brings us to... Ceremonial shovels will hit the dirt near Chattanooga on Wednesday as Volkswagen gets to work building an EV plant that will eventually churn out their new “I.D.” line of electric cars, including the retro-modern I.D. Buzz electric microbus that has many VW fans nearly drooling with anticipation. But before VW’s EV buyers can get their electric Woodstock on, workers at the $800 million facility will assemble the new (and perhaps ill-named) I.D. Crozz, an all-electric crossover that will likely take aim at the Tesla Model Y crossover SUV, which is due out in 2021. However, the timeline related to the new Volkswagen facility is interesting. While plans for the VW plant were announced in January, it’s taken until now to even get to the groundbreaking. Meanwhile, Tesla built the Shanghai facility and has it essentially up and running in the same amount of time. Clearly, the process to build such a facility in the U.S. is much more complicated than in China, but time is time, and while VW, Mercedes and BMW have been planning, Tesla has been doing. It will be interesting to see how long it takes Volkswagen to build an EV plant in America while Tesla does the same in Germany. On your mark... Cars aren’t the only target for electrification as the fossil fuel era winds down; another easy mark is buses, and at present, China’s BYD is working overtime to get municipalities to swap out diesel or natural gas-burning people movers for quiet, clean and low-maintenance electric buses. Their latest customer? The city of Los Angeles. BYD sent Forbes a press release late Tuesday evening saying that the L.A. D.O.T. has ordered 130 BYD K7M buses, “the largest single order of battery-electric buses to date in the United States.” The buses have a 150-mile range and can recharge in two to three hours according to BYD. The batteries have a 12-year warranty, about the same as the life expectancy of the buses themselves. Electric buses have been getting a toehold in American transit fleets, but the LADOT BYD order may push the door open more than a crack. Some may chafe that Los Angeles chose a Chinese company for their electric bus fleet, but BYD, which is a recent but massive company, has a union-operated electric bus manufacturing facility... in Los Angeles. The buses will be built there using what BYD claims is “more than 70% U.S. content,” exceeding a Federal Transit Administration requirement for Made In USA certification. At present, legacy American bus makers like Cummins’ partner Gillig - also in California - are spooling up electric transit buses while electric-only makers like Proterra of Colorado definitely have a horse in the race. But Gillig’s e-bus just came on the market while BYD and other Chinese firms have been refining their designs - and manufacturings costs - for years now. China uses electric buses at a ratio of literally over 1,000 to 1 compared to the United States, and the Eurozone is almost as far behind. It’s a huge world-wide market U.S. and Euro carriage makers are already far behind in exploiting. Taken together, it’s was quite a good Tuesday for electric vehicle makers worldwide. While Tesla still struggles towards ultimate profitability, the rapid turnaround in China and big plans in Germany may make some of the notorious Tesla short sellers start to sweat even more than they have been. As for Volkswagen, there’s no doubt the big new plant will take time to build and outfit, and with the pace of change in the EV market, they may end up behind the curve in terms of design and performance before the first uber-electric microbus even rolls off the line. Meanwhile, every carmaker continues to chase Tesla in terms of design, price, performance, range and popularity - even the Chinese. But for how much longer? 