As far as oil and gas industry messages go, Dr Sultan Al Jaber, Chief Executive Officer of state-owned Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC), recently offered a pretty compelling one to his peers. "The era of digital disruption is just beginning for the industry and will only gather pace over time. Yet, the oil and gas company of today can be a winner tomorrow, if it operates at a lower level of cost and a higher level of performance," he noted, at the recently concluded Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition Conference (ADIPEC) 2019; the United Arab Emirates' long-running annual energy industry fixture, currently in its 35th year. Al Jaber said he wasn't pontificating, rather ADNOC was putting its money where its mouth is. The state-owned oil and gas behemoth, according to its boss, "embraces" the age of disruption where digitization is the next frontier to driving efficiencies, curbing costs and extracting the highest value from "every molecule of hydrocarbon produced." To this effect, ADNOC is "doubling down" and pumping millions of dollars into artificial intelligence, Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), augmented and virtual reality kit and advanced analytics – or 'Oil and Gas 4.0' as the company colorfully describes it. The signature hive of such activity is ADNOC's Panorama Digital Command Center at its headquarters in downtown Abu Dhabi. Invited to pay a visit, your correspondent was greeted by Abdul Nasser Al Mughairbi, Senior Vice President, Digital at ADNOC, to an environment of glittering screens and multiple connected consoles mapping, monitoring and managing all things in the company's value chain, from wells to terminals, pipelines to crackers. Al Mughairbi said the center's core mission is enabling "clearer, real-time, business-critical decision making" justifying the unspecified millions spent in bringing the facility online. "We are not just monitoring hydrocarbon molecules; predictive analytics deployed here are significantly minimizing our operational downtime and maximizing our savings. "Operational efficiency is only one aspect; the center is also helping in our efforts to remain among the least carbon-intensive oil and gas producers in the world." Those efforts involve getting the center – completed in November 2018 – to be the digital beating heart of a company that produces 3 million barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil and 9.8 billion cubic feet per day (bcf/d) of natural gas. And the hydrocarbon molecules are set to grow in line with Al Jaber's vision of upping ADNOC's headline crude production to 4 million bpd by Q4 2020, and achieving medium-term natural gas sufficiency. "The center is built to withstand whatever the future throws its way via ADNOC's 14 integrated entities, and over 150 transportation and support vessels all currently digitally monitored and analysed from here." The multi-million dollar project was put to a tender fist fight, and while hardware, including a 50 meter video wall, came from all around the technology world, software industrials giant Schneider Electric bagged the contract for developing the center that covers an entire floor. "Since completion, the Center has offered us an invaluable single, national view of our all oil and gas assets and production in real-time. Industry commentators talk of value creation and return on investment, this facility's value – purely in terms of predictive analysis across our value chain alone – is commendable." And whatever, ADNOC and its boss Al Jaber embark on, the center has room to incorporate it in its digital offering. For instance, the company is expanding its, and the region's, first commercial-scale carbon capture utilization and storage facility to capture at least 4.3 million tonnes of CO2 annually by 2030. That equals the amount of CO2 captured annually by 5 million acres of trees or forest over twice the size of the UAE. The project is well underway, and is unsurprisingly being monitored from the center with predictive analytics in full flow. A floor above the center, upstream experts are remotely monitoring over 100 active rigs, deploying a platform conjured up by Baker Hughes. ADNOC is also partaking in blockchain ventures for its benchmark crude – the Murban – having launched Abu Dhabi oil futures on November 11, 2019 in partnership with exchange group ICE, major oil companies, refiners and trading house Vitol. ADNOC is also conducting fresh digital 3D seismic mapping, which has already covered 70% of Abu Dhabi, and there have also been two pilots of 4D seismic mapping. "Digital is everywhere from maintenance to operations. It is changing the employee mindset and skillset. It's all well and good to bring in technologists and vendors to build such a facility, but once we take ownership, it is us who have to realize its true potential. It is early days, but the results are tangible and our journey is just beginning." ADNOC's new discoveries this year include over 7 billion barrels in oil reserves, 58 trillion cubic feet of conventional gas, and over 160 trillion cubic feet of unconventional gas. The findings have seen the UAE has move up from seventh to sixth place in the ranking of the largest oil and gas reserves in the world. Looks like the center will have its digital hands full with tasks over the coming decades of 'Oil and Gas 4.0.' 