Throughout the past year, investors have been regularly faced with the challenge of choosing between asset classes for the best version of the truth, as equities routinely rally in the face of safety-trade strength in Treasuries and gold, or during major breakdowns in crude oil. Two years of evidence suggests stocks have been the most accurate in signaling the future of the US economy. Cyclical companies including homebuilders and chipmakers began dropping in early 2018 as corporate guidance at these firms turned south, and continued selling off despite climbing bond yields and a narrative of synchronized global growth. The S&P 500 chopped around for most of the year and still had another 20% drop when the bad news hit in Q4, but it was bonds that had to do an epic u-turn that ended in the first yield curve inversion since before the financial crisis. Then in 2019 the stock market turned around with force – yes, aided by a reversal by the Federal Reserve – but that was kind of the point. While the most paranoid investors piled money into gold, bonds and bitcoin again, some of the biggest gains in stocks were made in homebuilders, chips, and joined by cyclical financial and industrial firms in the fall as the bond market decided maybe Armageddon was not in the books for this year. As an added bonus, some of the frothiest, most hopeful story-stocks – from WeWork to software and pot stocks – got their clocks cleaned. High-quality factor funds are the top winning style trades of the year, beating out both momentum and low-vol funds, another sign of discernment in equities. But now the market is again exposed. Despite all that keen discernment in stocks, the S&P 500 trades at 20.5x earnings, the richest trailing multiple since before the 2018 crash, and earnings guidance for 2020 has yet to turn around. Whether stocks can continue their fortune-telling hot-hand now seems to rest solely on the idea of a sharp acceleration of the economy on the back of a U.S.-China trade deal. While there are signs these past two weeks that traders are becoming less trigger-happy around trade headlines, that doesn’t mean they’re not priced for something more than economic stability. The catch is, the timing of the global manufacturing slowdown and subsequent stabilization suggests trade policy is not entirely to blame for the 2019 slowdown. While that means traders may not need to fear tariffs as much as they thought, it also means a deal may not be the springboard for powerful growth that many hope it will be. If not, stocks are looking the most exposed to weakness they’ve been in more than a year.