We all knew that the Russians, at least in the Kremlin, were no fans of horizontal drilling, best known as fracking for oil and gas. We thought Vladimir Putin might just be jealous.  He’s not. “We will never frack,” he says. “We don’t need to develop shale oil at all. First, we don’t need to increase the supply of oil to world markets, and we have enough oil we can get from the Arctic shelf,” he says, adding that fracking was “terrible for the environment.” Putin was responding to a question from a representative from French oil firm Total SA during Wednesday’s Russia Calling! conference in Moscow, an investment forum put on by VTB Capital, now in its eleventh year. The problem with Putin’s statement is that his biggest natural gas company doesn’t think the same way about fracking. State-owned news agency Sputnik News reported as far back as 2016 that Gazprom was developing its own horizontal drilling capabilities following a ban on tech purchases from the U.S. due to Ukraine-related sanctions. Gazprom Neft, one of the country’s largest oil producers, which falls under the Gazprom family of state-owned energy giants, completed the construction of its first horizontal drilling well three years ago in the Bazhenov Basin in Western Siberia, a little closer to Moscow than to the Pacific Ocean. The basin includes the Kara Sea, a body of water where Exxon once had a roughly $720 million joint venture to drill for hydrocarbons together with Russian oil major Rosneft. That deal was scrapped because of sanctions by the Obama Administration. At the time of the successful drilling by Gazprom Neft, Russian state media touted that they did not need U.S. technology to carry out drilling for shale oil and gas.  Putin has always been a naysayer of shale, with the RT news agency regularly airing features about flaming waters, earthquakes and dirty water caused by fracking. The International Energy Agency said Bazhenov was the world’s largest source for shale oil and gas in the world, though it is mostly all undeveloped. Gazprom Neft expects to start commercial production from the Bazhenov formation as early as 2025. They have around 30 fracking sites in Russia, according to the company.   Of course, fracking for oil and gas is not the mainstay of Russian hydrocarbons. But it’s something Gazprom Neft is pursuing, whether Putin knows it or not (he probably does). Putin was also asked by standing-room only attendees about Europe’s newfound disdain for fossil fuels in order to combat climate change. Russia is Europe’s leading foreign supplier of natural gas.  He said that a switch to wind and solar will be gradual but would return Europe to the “stone ages” unless they replaced fossil fuels with nuclear. Germany banned nuclear power after the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant disaster in Japan in 2011. “We see the demand fall for natural gas in Europe mainly because the economies are slowing,” Putin said, sitting on stage with a handful of executives and investors from Italy, China and the U.S. “But China is still growing. India is still growing. They might not be growing as quickly as they once were, but they are growing and will still need oil and gas for a while,” Putin says. Russia is a signatory to the Paris Accord and the Kyoto Protocol, agreements among nations to reduce carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere. Russia has reduced its carbon footprint by around 25% between 1990 and 2017, according to an EU study published in 2018. The decline is mostly due to the country going through three economic crises in the period. By comparison, U.S. saw a 0.4% increase in CO2 emissions over the same time, while China and India both saw threefold increases as they quickly industrialized their economies, powered in large part by coal. Putin said that the government was not going to use spare money from its National Wealth Fund to invest in oil and gas, and would put it to use in non-resource projects, namely investing in high-technology fields like artificial intelligence.  