Saudi Arabia’s planned initial public offering of its state oil company, Saudi Aramco, is stirring speculation that it could spell the end of the price-controlling cartel known as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). But such analysis misses a crucial point. On the surface, it makes sense that the future of Saudi participation in OPEC is in question after its state-owned oil company is listed. After all, a publicly-traded Aramco will be under investor pressure to increase short-term profits and boost shareholder dividends, something it doesn’t have to worry about now. The demand to maximize profits will increase as more shares of Aramco are offered to private investors, especially if the Saudi Royal Family seeks a second listing on large foreign exchange.  Upping production would be a natural way for Aramco to respond to demands for more profits. Aramco, the world’s largest oil company, currently produces about 10 million barrels a day. Still, Saudi Arabia has roughly 2 million barrels a day of spare capacity – oil that could be poured onto the market in a matter of weeks if the Saudis choose to. Aramco has a competitive advantage over other oil-producing regions due to its meager cost of production. In its 658-page prospectus for investors, Aramco touts breakeven costs of under $10 a barrel – the world’s lowest. Its closest competitor, the United Arab Emirates which spends $20 to produce a single barrel of oil. The Russians must pay $40 per barrel, and in the prolific shale fields of the United States, the cost is close to $50 a barrel. An increasing number of market watchers, including the International Energy Agency (IEA), are concerned oil demand around the world could start to shrink as soon as 2025. It would make sense for Saudi to try to increase its share of the global market before a slowdown arrives. The kingdom currently provides about 10 percent of the 100 million barrels a day global oil demand. It could quickly increase its slice of the pie by dumping lower-cost oil on the market if it thought those resources might become stranded in a fossil-free future. The stakes are enormous for Saudi Arabia, which sits on 266 billion barrels of reserves – the largest proven supply of low-cost conventional oil in the world. It’s easy to see then how Riyadh might reconsider its alliance with the other member nations of OPEC, which has been under voluntary production cuts since the start of 2017 to support higher oil prices.  The challenge for Saudi Arabia is that any move to capture a greater share of the market by increasing output means a lower price for every barrel it producers, reducing the value of its resources.  It is a lesson U.S. shale producers know all too well. Competition has driven down the cost of production in West Texas and other U.S. shale plays, saving American consumers billions of dollars annually, but shaving profit margins in the process. As revenue from production shrinks, companies invest less in finding new oil reserves. Eventually, as cheap oil becomes more difficult to pump, oil prices rise, and exploration budgets follow suit. Boom and bust, it’s the cycle of the oil sector.  OPEC has historically acted as a brake on oil prices, with some notable exceptions. It’s in the interest of OPEC members to moderate the price of oil so that it remains high enough to support healthy profits but not so high that consumers start clamoring for alternatives like electric vehicles.  Global oil markets are oversupplied thanks to an abundance of non-OPEC production, led by U.S. shale but also from Brazil, Norway and now Guyana. Few observers see this “era of abundance” ending anytime soon. New drilling in the U.S. shale sector is slowing down, which will lead to more moderate growth rates in the future. U.S. producers are unlikely to hit the 1.6 million barrels a day of new production in a single year again as they did in 2018. But the sector will continue to grow – just slower.  The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) expects U.S. oil production to expand by 1.3 million barrels a day this year and a further 1 million barrels a day in 2020, taking U.S. output to an average of 13.3 million barrels a day. The Paris-based IEA projects that a more measured grow rate in the United States means that oil output from shale will stay “higher for longer.” It forecasts U.S. production will account for 85 percent of increased global oil supplies through 2030. That leaves little room for Saudi or other OPEC members to increase production, something the cartel conceded in its World Oil Outlook 2040.To maintain higher oil prices, OPEC and Russia will have to remain in the production cutting business for the foreseeable future. That puts Saudi Arabia in a fix. It can’t afford to boost production to benefit investor interest in Aramco stock without undercutting the value of its resources. The result is that the Saudis can’t afford to walk away from OPEC or its policy of production cuts anytime soon.  Saudi Arabia’s domestic budget is already in the red due to low oil prices. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimates Saudi Arabia needs an oil price of $86.50 a barrel to balance its budget this year. Saudi Arabia is trapped. What’s unclear is whether Russia will continue to agree to production cuts. The current agreement between OPEC and non-OPEC members to keep 1.2 million barrels of oil a day off the market expires at the end of March. Russia – as well as Iraq and Nigeria – have chafed under output restraints and have recently been cheating, selling more oil than agreed to under the OPEC deal. Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman needs the public offering to fund his plans to restructure the kingdom’s economy, but the Aramco IPO now looks poorly timed. Had the sale occurred before U.S. shale was unleashed and the ban on oil exports lifted, Saudi Arabia would have more room to maneuver in the market.  Instead, Saudi and its fellow OPEC producers enjoyed $100 oil prices amid “peak supply” fears in the years before the 2014 price crash. It was those same sky-high oil prices that allowed innovative U.S. oil companies to perfect the practice of hydraulic fracturing that unlocked the vast shale resources and flooded the market with cheaper oil. Today, global oil markets are defined by resource abundance instead of scarcity. This has changed the oil market landscape for the foreseeable future. It will be reflected in Aramco’s valuation soon – and it’s why Saudi Arabia has little choice but to stick with OPEC.             