A largely-ignored driver of the robust Trump Economy—and the record-high S&P 500—has been low energy prices. I just returned to NYC from a trip through several Southern states, and filling up my car with gasoline was truly a pleasure. That’s the untold story.  As the U.S. economy continues to generate 50-year low rates of unemployment, and even more importantly, healthy rates of employment, America’s transport economy continues to benefit from low fuel prices for gasoline (a petroleum derivative) at the same time industrial users benefit from historically low prices for natural gas. Even companies that aren’t obvious users of hydrocarbons—data center companies, for instance—benefit from the low price for natgas, which serves as a benchmark for electricity pricing in most of the country.  The tight oil drilling revolution—call it “fracking” if you will, but actually hydraulic fracturing technology has been around for 70 years; it is the ability to directionally point rigs, usually horizontally, that has fundamentally altered energy extraction—has produced domestic production levels that are much higher than had been contemplated 10 years ago. As the Wall Street Journal pointed out this morning, U.S crude oil production has increased by 127% since 2005, while natural gas production has increased 87%.  As always, the most important factor in investing is the second derivative, the inflection point, and we have reached one in terms of U.S. hydrocarbon production. As the U.S. oil rig count sits more than 200 rigs below its year-ago level (a 25% decline,) Industrial America is coming to grips with the fact that oil output volume must eventually decline, as well. Shale plays are characterized by steep declines in production from initial levels. So, with fewer rigs running, the production rate has to come down. As we enter 2020, that will be a drag on companies that provide and service those rigs, but should actually help the producers. I believe this is especially true in the case of natural gas, prices for which have been in a depression since November 2014.  If you own the integrated energy majors, the prospect for lower U.S. production (and, by inference, higher commodity prices) is a mild positive. If you have held onto ExxonMobil and Chevron through oil’s price volatility and wisely reinvested dividends, you have earned a positive economic returns, and you may just get some capital gains in 2020 on those positions, as well. If you own anything smaller than the megacaps, though, it has been a theatre of pain for the past 5 years in the exploration and production sector. There are times when any stock’s move is simply an overreaction, and a savvy investor can make money by buying really low and waiting for a mean reversion. I currently have a position in highly controversial and much loathed Chesapeake Energy, as I noted in this Forbes column, and stocks of pure natgas plays such as Range Resources and Antero Resources are also just too cheap to ignore at current levels.  But this is the energy sector, and the last five years have taught me that if there are winners there must surely losers. With lower rig counts, obvious names to avoid (and possibly short) would be service giants Schlumberger and Halliburton. Also, stocks of companies that have significant energy industry exposure, such as Kennametal (which was also mentioned in the WSJ story this AM,) should be considered radioactive here as sales to energy industry clients dry up.  So, the prospect of higher energy prices, although certainly not reflected in today’s futures curves, presents a headwind for the U.S. economy heading into an election year. Airlines and shipping companies are classic beneficiaries of low energy prices, and I am looking at names like Delta and FedEx as possible shorts heading into 2020 as those benefits reverse.  So, as the market continues to focus on flimsy demand-driven narratives regarding the outcome of trade talks between the U.S. and China (which imported a record am0unt of oil in October,) investors should be focusing more on the supply side for goods of all types, including energy. With strong demand and slowing supply, economics tells us that commodity prices should rise, and I believe that is exactly what we will see in 2020. I am not sure the developed economies can handle such a shock, and the S&P 500 at 3,120 is certainly not priced for any type of economic shock at all.      