Russia plans to ban the sale of devices without Russian-made software. The move may come to test the limits of the possibilities that 21st century technology offers the consumer. The law, which is due to come into effect in July 2020, will require smartphones, computers, and smart TV sets sold in Russia to have pre-installed Russian software. Supporters argue it's consumer choice Oleg Nikolayev, co-author of the legislation, argued that people buying electronic devices that come with pre-installed western apps, "might think that there are no domestic alternatives available. And if, alongside pre-installed applications, we will also offer the Russian ones to users, then they will have a right to choose," the BBC reported. In a sense, this can be taken at face value. Russians love their devices as much as the rest of us. The internet in Russia's big cities works as well, as is used as widely–for business, booking travel, shopping, ordering food deliveries–as anywhere else in the world. Despite that, almost all the hardware and software is imported. In a time of western sanctions, and oil prices that are way off the highs of the last decade when they fuelled a rising salaries and a consumer boom, the Russian economy has been squeezed. So any move to reduce reliance on imports seems reasonable. Potential for surveillance Not everyone will be convinced by that logic. Compulsory software on devices offers potential for surveillance, of course. It was only on November 1 that new legislation came into force giving the Russian state the right to cut the country off from the internet–although, as I argued in an earlier post, it is far from clear yet how this might work in practice. Perhaps we have seen something like this before. Remember the row that the Indian government had with Blackberry in 2010? The government wanted access to a secure network they were worried could be used for planning terror attacks. In 2016, Russia blocked access to LinkedIn, saying the networking site fell foul of legislation relating to the data held on Russian users. Russia has proved more than capable of adapting western technology to its own ends. Its media companies have adapted western tv formats to promote "a Russian viewpoint on major global events." Social media sites have also been used to promote Russian political messaging, and even, allegedly, to interfere in other countries' elections. The legislation still needs to be approved by the upper house of parliament, and then signed into law by President Vladimir Putin, but these are likely to be formalities. So manufacturers and retailers will have to work out how to respond. As Reuters reported November 5, those who don't comply will face fines of 200,000 roubles ($3,135). State-sanctioned apps: what's the difference? All in all, it could end up being a test of how much freedom new technology really has given the world in terms both of consumer choice, and free exchange of information. But before we get carried away, it is worth remembering this: if Russia has an international reputation for technological excellence, it's founded in part on a reputation for hacking. In 2011, the London Sunday Times headlined an article by Evgeny Morozov, author of The Net Delusion, "Why the world's secret police want you to join Facebook." Put simply, the argument was that the amount people shared online gave security services plenty to work with. So what difference would state-sanctioned apps really make? Well, perhaps if Russians decided they didn't want to sign up for social networking, the security services could do it for them. 