Julian Birkinshaw, London Business School We have been living with e-commerce for a quarter of a century, and we are constantly reminded that the traditional industrial order is under threat. So would it surprise you to learn that fewer than 3% of the firms in the Fortune 500 were actually founded since the arrival of the World Wide Web in 1994? As a business school professor, I have discovered the easiest way to grab the attention of an executive audience is to make the case that their industry is facing disruption. I talk about the classic corporate failures (Kodak, Nokia, Blockbuster) where smart, well-intentioned executives got stuck behind the curve, and I show how digital technology is finding its way into every industry. The message is clear: no-one is immune to the forces of creative destruction; you could be the next Kodak! While this line of argument is engaging, not everyone buys it. In recent years, I have run programs for executives in auditing, retail banking, insurance, chemicals, food products, and engineering, among many others. Some people are worried. Many others are deeply skeptical. “The top five companies in my industry today are exactly the same as they were 20 years ago,” said one retail banker. “Ah, but just wait and see what the next few years brings – we are on the cusp of a full-blown disruption.” I responded. “But I attended an executive program here twenty years ago, and that’s what your colleagues told us then. Why should I believe you now?” It’s a fair challenge. Like the boy who cried wolf, we cannot expect to be believed if our predictions of imminent disruption don’t come to pass. It has become almost axiomatic that we live in a world of unprecedented change, where corporate longevity is plummeting, and where incumbency is more a liability than an asset. But is all this really true? Or are we exaggerating the threat to these established companies? Changes in the Fortune 500 I decided to tackle these questions by assembling some data. Several studies have made the case for a high rate of churn in membership of the Fortune 500 or S&P 500. I thought I would look at the same data with a slightly different question – to see how much inertia there is in this set of large firms. Here is the question I asked: How many of today’s Fortune 500 firms were founded in 1994 or later? By singling out these young disruptor firms, it follows that all the others are relatively well-set incumbents who have figured out a variety of survival strategies to help them stay relevant. I chose 1994 for two reasons. First, a quarter of a century felt like a sufficiently long time for a new challenger to become established. 1994 is also the year the World Wide Web was just getting started (i.e. with the first online sales), so any pure dotcoms would – by definition – be founded after that date. To be clear, this analysis isn’t intended to provide a crystal ball into the future; it won’t tell us if we are on the verge of future disruption. Rather, it provides us with solid empirical evidence of how much large-scale disruption has occurred up to now, to stimulate a more informed discussion of what might come next. The table provides this analysis, broken down into the industry sectors Fortune uses. A total of 63 of today’s Fortune 500 were founded in 1994 or later. But the vast majority of these are spinoffs, demergers or restructurings (e.g. Mondelez, Hewlett Packard Enterprises, Navient, Abbvie). If you look at firms with no pre-existing assets in 1994, the number shrinks to 14, which is sufficiently few that I can list them here: Activision Blizzard, Alphabet, Amazon, Booking Holdings, Cognizant, eBay, Expedia, Facebook, Intercontinental Exchange, Netflix, Paypal, Salesforce, Tesla, Wayfair. The other 486 firms either existed before 1994, or were assembled from assets that existed before that date. What is more interesting than this headline number is the distribution by industry sector. Its no surprise that most of the churn is in technology (11 out of 42 are new since 1994), retail (8 out of 46) and media (4 out of 12). There is a surprising amount of action in energy, with 14 of 61 firms being new since 1994. But a closer look at this group shows they are all financial or operational restructurings, stimulated by the emergence of shale gas and renewables, by regulatory changes, and by a volatile oil price. At the other extreme, five sectors have seen no post-1994 entrants, and ten more sectors have only one or two new entrants. For example, take household products: Fortune lists P&G, Kimberly-Clark, Colgate-Palmolive, Stanley Black & Decker, Estee Lauder, Newell brands, Mohawk Industries, Coty, Masco and Clorox. Apart from a few mergers (e.g. Newell swallowing Rubbermaid), this list would have looked remarkably similar in the 1970s. Not a great deal of churn going on there. So what’s really going on? I have shown this analysis to various colleagues and classrooms of executives, and its safe to say most of them hate it. I have been accused of asking the wrong question, using the wrong data and fundamentally misunderstanding the process of creative destruction. Let me tackle some of the more pedestrian points of concern first. First, this is the US-based Fortune 500, not the Global 500. But the global list would have given even fewer post-1994 entrants, partly because they are on average much bigger firms, partly because the US has more tech heavyweights than other large economies like Germany or Japan. Second, this list doesn’t include mid-sized and smaller firms, many of which are potentially very disruptive. But of course many of these smaller firms will fail, and most of those that succeed end up being acquired by large established firms. Which helps to emphasize my point, namely that established firms have developed a range of tactics –such as acquiring would-be competitors – to help them to endure. Third, its also worth bearing in mind that the Fortune list is based on revenues, not market capitalization, and if you looked at the top 500 by market cap you would see a much bigger number of young fast-growing digital firms (often loss-making). But all that tells us is investors are buying the argument I opened this piece with, i.e. that future disruption is real. The point of my analysis is to make sense of what’s gone before, and for this real revenues and profits are what matters. But some of the challenges to this analysis are more substantial and profound. Three in particular: Conclusions and take-aways The make-up of the Fortune 500 is hardly a secret, so there should be no huge surprises in this analysis. But given how much talk there is about increasing levels of churn in these lists of established firms, it is important to remind ourselves of the facts. Here are five key take-aways: The bottom line here is that digital disruption is a more nuanced phenomenon than most people realize. If your firm is in a traditional sector, making physical products not digital services, these forces of creative destruction are a threat to your continued growth, your capacity to capture new opportunities, and your profit margins, but they rarely represent an existential threat. So you need to remain vigilant, and you need to be proactive in how you respond – using the array of techniques noted above – but contrary to what some business school professors might tell you, you are extremely unlikely to become the next Kodak.