Never has demand for oil been so robust, reaching a record 1.5% increase from this time last year. Yet this robustness comes at a time when major oil-producing countries like Iran, Libya, Venezuela and Nigeria are facing debilitating internal crises as well as external pressures. These are crippling their oil supply. Despite the tensions, at $57 per barrel, oil prices remain low and could plummet to $30 a barrel, warns CNBC. That’s a price level unequalled since January 2016 when the slump in world financial markets helped bring it down to $28/bbl. What explains this apparent dichotomy, which defies the basic economic equation in which scarcity drives up prices? The simple answer is excess liquidity of supply over demand, a reality that geopolitical tensions lead us to neglect. This excess is set to grow with the International Energy Agency predicting another market surplus next year. What is behind all this? As a longtime adviser of energy groups and governments and current executive director of the Energy & Finance Chair at HEC Paris, here are some of my insights. Be warned, however: the oil industry is living an era of contradictions and inconsistencies across the board, with allies turning out to be competitors, once sworn enemies today coalescing on the price of the barrel, accords being ripped up, trade wars setting off domino reactions, and so on. Few specialists can confidently decipher a global oil industry which consistently blurs and mixes signals, nor can they accurately predict where this leads us in 2020. Web Of Contradictory National And International Tensions First, the context. Less than a year before the 2020 US Presidential elections, Donald Trump badly needs to keep the price at the oil pump low. This is essential for his re-election drive – but he faces a complex web of contradictory domestic and international forces. Here are a few: - The US shale oil industry, a heavy lobbying and voting force behind Trump, demands an oil price of around $60/bbl. Furthermore, Saudi Arabia and the OPEC members need to finance their own public spending through a much higher oil price than Trump can afford politically. - The American president’s go-it-alone, protectionist rhetoric is not immune to the global, multi-lateral economy since the oil market is intertwined with a global order created by the US after World War II. Trump has been mixing a form of ‘splendid isolationism’ harking back to the Jackson and Monroe doctrines, with a tacit acknowledgement that the US cannot go it alone. So, he keeps publicly quiet whilst putting pressure on Saudi Arabia to increase oil production, something the Saudis are strongly resisting. - The booming US shale oil industry is churning out an unprecedented 18 million barrels per day, by far the largest producer in the world. This is a “Tight Oil’ industry no one saw coming back in the early 2000s and more than makes up for the global shortfall. It shows no signs of stalling despite global and popular calls to decarbonize the world’s economies (Europe aims to decarbonize 95% of its economies by 2050). - The ongoing political, structural and economic crises in Venezuela, Libya, Iran, and Iraq are fueling calls for greater compensatory shale oil production. These answer concerns of an imminent supply crunch, largely due to the civilian protests in Iraq and Iran and the smoldering civil war in Libya. - The unpredictability of global politics and market forces are leading to hostile forces sharing common objectives - strange bedfellows which characterize the dominance of realpolitik. We are seeing Saudi Arabia and Iran share a desire to keep oil prices above $60 a barrel (though Riyadh doesn’t want it too high or it could stifle global industry and compromise their friend Trump’s chances in the 2020 elections). Meanwhile, China is happy to see the US drive for lower prices for the barrel as it helps its own industrial growth. China’s oil demand increases by around 0.5 mb/d each year, though this is likely to slow down in the next five years. Ironically, a significant share of US oil exports will go to its Asian rivals at the same time as their trade war hots up. Finally, we have Russia and the Saudis joining forces to keep production down in a world where the Russians are bouncing back on several fronts in the Middle East. Uncertainty Reigns All in all, the global oil equation is turning out to be a difficult one to resolve. Spencer Daly, a recognized specialist and chief economist at British Petroleum, is one amongst many who admits to scratching his head over the future. His one certainty is that the world’s industries and consumers are likely to pressure suppliers for ever-growing quantities of oil for decades to come. The rest is up for conjecture: “Small changes in assumptions can lead to vastly different estimates,” he writes, adding that peak oil demand has created a new paradigm, “from an age of (perceived) scarcity to an age of abundance (which) is likely to herald a shift to a more competitive market environment.” This uncertainty makes for a difficult tightrope walking exercise for the Trump administration in the coming months. The oil demand/supply question is coming into greater focus in this US election year when the Trump camp will try to claim the record US oil production is theirs. The probable incumbent sees lower oil prices at gas stations as essential for his re-election drive - he can only be satisfied that gas prices could return to the 2016 lows. However, it remains a risky balancing act. As Spencer Daly points out, “the range of uncertainty is huge. Small changes in assumptions about the myriad factors determining oil demand … can generate very different paths.” Which path will US politics take as contradictory oil supply and demand lobbies bear down on it? Jean-Michel Gauthier is executive director of the Energy & Finance Chair at HEC Paris