In an early Christmas present to U.S. shale oil drillers, OPEC members meeting in Vienna have reportedly agreed to an additional 500,000 barrel per day cut in oil supplies. The Saudis pushed for the deeper cuts, but only on the condition that oil producers pledge to abide by the 1.2 million bpd in cuts already in effect. In recent months Nigeria, Iraq, Russia and UAE have been “cheating” — producing in excess of quota — leaving the Saudis to bear most of the burden of cuts. Other than American frackers (who will gladly fill whatever market share OPEC gives up) the biggest winner of the week appears to be Russia, which has reportedly convinced OPEC to stop counting against quotas its burgeoning supplies of ultra-light condensates produced from natural gas fields. OPEC had little choice but to cut. Although existing restrictions have succeeded in tightening global inventories back within 5-year averages, every leading oil market prognosticator sees bouyant growth in non-OPEC output for 2020, led by shale drilling in the U.S. According to research consultancy Rystad, non-OPEC oil production will grow 2.26 million bpd in 2020, led by 1.35 million bpd from shale fracking. That would be the biggest non-OPEC supply growth since 1978. Without deeper cuts the market will see “a substantial build of global crude stocks and a corresponding drop in oil prices,” said Rystad in a report this week. The world currently uses 100 million bpd of petroleum, with OPEC supplying 34 million bpd. There’s a risk that further production cuts backfire for OPEC by breathing life into moribund shale frackers, which cut investments in shale development to $129 billion in 2019, with another 10% reduction expected in 2020. Rystad figures that if oil prices fell to $45 per barrel, shale production would still be “robust,” rising from 8.6 million barrels per day now to 10.1 million bpd in 2022 even as wells drilled would decline from 17,000 per year to 12,500. Oil at $75 would be sufficient to spur a U.S. drilling frenzy of 24,700 wells per year and grow shale output beyond 12 million bpd. According to consultancy Energy Aspects, OPEC is “hoping that relatively low prices and financial difficulties put a permanent dent in the ambitions of small and mid-sized shale producers and their financial backers.” Indeed, some analysts believe that forecasts of U.S. growth are too aggressive. IHS Markit predicts just 400,000 bpd of U.S. growth in 2020, while Oswald Clint of Bernstein Research notes that “we think revisions are imminent,” and has already slashed U.S. growth forecasts from 1 million bpd to 500,000. Bernstein analysts believe decline rates on aging shale wells are underestimated and that shale production will peak in 2024. If OPEC can maintain cohesion until then, it might find itself with more pricing power. That could change, however, depending on who wins the White House next year and how they feel about the Iran nuclear deal abandoned by President Trump. According to Bernstein’s Bob Brackett: “Our greatest downside fear is our worry about the risks of a democratic president in 2021 returning to the JCPOA agreement and releasing Iranian barrels currently under sanction.” Iran, now producing 1.9 million bpd, was doing 3.5 million in 2018. So far oil markets seem unimpressed with OPEC’s tentative deal; Brent crude was up about .5% midday at $63.36.