OPEC and Russia delivered an agreement to cut oil production by a total of 500,000 barrels per day for in the first quarter of 2020. According to new production quotas, which were released on OPEC’s website, Saudi Arabia and the other Gulf oil producers will shoulder most of the cuts, with Saudi Arabia committing to cut even more that its quota. This will be a real test the power of OPEC+ in the current market, and in particular, whether the cartel can instigate a durable price bump. In a market primarily concerned with global economic weakness, lagging demand growth and high production from North American shale oil, this was a risky move by member nations. Evidence has indicated that the market might be unwilling to respond to such production cuts in the sustained fashion OPEC producers desire. Market response to OPEC’s headlines has been fairly muted so far. Brent traded up a little over 2% after the cut was announced but then lost half of the gains in a short period. If today’s decision fails to sustain a higher price for oil, it will be seen as a desperate move by a weak organization. OPEC and OPEC+ will have trouble convincing the market to pay attention the next time they act. It was a particularly risky move to make at this juncture because this is a large enough cut that OPEC and Russia hope it will influence the market, but, given the institutional cheating, the cut seems unlikely to be able to make a real difference in global oil output. Saudi Arabia’s oil minister, Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, gamely tried to convince the media, analysts and market watchers that over-producers would curb their production inline with their agreed upon quotas. Both the Nigerian and the Iraqi oil ministers spoke directly about their intentions to cut production. Nigeria said that as November ended its production was in completely compliance. “Our production is at OPEC cut levels,” the Nigerian oil minister said. “Going forward we are still very committed.” At the end of the day, the oil market will determine the worth of OPEC and Russia’s promises. 