As leaders of Germany, France, Ukraine and Russia prepare for a Normandy summit on December 9 in Paris, many in Ukraine fear that President Volodymyr Zelensky might cross some “red lines” to appease his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin. The Normandy summit will be the first in three years of its kind and will discuss ways to achieve peace in the occupied eastern territories of Ukraine. It is happening as relationship with the United States is cooling and winding down because of Ukraine’s role in the impeachment hearings. Many fear that, combined with popular pressure for peace at home, it will push political newby Zelensky into a trap—especially in his one-on-one meetings with his much shrewder Russian counterpart. “I have never been so worried about any international issues as I worry about this now,” says Ivanna Klympush-Tsyntsadze, a parliament member and former deputy prime minister for European integration. She says her worst nightmare is if Zelensky agrees to integrate the currently occupied territories in eastern Ukraine and conduct elections by the end of next year, without full disarmament and control over the Russian-Ukrainain border. “This would be like implanting yourself a cancerous tumor,” she said. Russia illegally annexed the Crimean peninsula from Ukraine in 2014, and Russian-backed and armed separatists occupied swathes of the eastern Donbas region, with decisions about those regions taken by Putin’s close aide Vladislav Surkov, according to Dutch investigators. But the Kremlin has always denied involvement in the war, which has killed more than 13,000 Ukrainians. As the summit approaches, the differences in expectations from Ukrainian and Russian sides are becoming more stark. At a December 4 briefing, Zelensky said his primary concern was humanitarian. He wants a prisoner swap in the “all-for-all” format ahead of the New Year. The first prisoner exchange between Ukraine and Russia since 2014 took place in early September, but only 35 people on each side were released. Around the time of the exchange Zelensky had unprecedented popular support in Ukraine of 73%. He lost 20 percent by November 25, according to a recent poll by the Kyiv International Institute for Sociology. But over half of Ukrainians still like his peace initiatives, according to the same poll. Zelensky, a former comedian and actor, is very sensitive to public opinion, which often informs his decisions, according to several sources who speak with him regularly. Zelensky said his second priority in peace talks was improving security in the war-torn Donbas, including the pulling of Russian and proxy troops and illegal weapons. He also said that the issue of potential local elections in Donbas would be discussed. “For us it’s very important that all our [ Ukrainian] parties are represented in that election, that there are both our and international observers, and that there is open and safe access for journalists,” he said. Russia, however, has laid out its own agenda. Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Russia wants Ukraine to conduct “direct negotiations” with Donetsk and Luhansk republics, which are considered terrorist organizations in Ukraine. Negotiating with them would mean their de-facto recognition. Several political leaders, including former President Petro Poroshenko, made a statement on December 3, pointing out some “red lines” for Zelensky, including negotiations on the status of the so-called republics. “There should be no compromises on unitary state in Ukraine, and no federalization, no compromises on the European and Euro-Atlantic cooperation, and no political actions (including elections) on the temporary occupied territories of Donbas until all security and de-occupation conditions are met,” several parliamentary leaders said in a statement. Other parties have recently pushed to see where the red lines for Ukraine really are. On December 29, the unrecognized parliament of Donetsk People’s Republic voted to extend the border of the republic to the whole of Donetsk region, which includes Ukrainian government-controlled territories. In the same week, Speaker of Russia’s parliament Vyacheslav Volodin threatened that Ukraine might lose some other regions “if it continues to oppress smaller peoples.” Reactions from Ukraine to such statements have been lukewarm. Ukrainian diplomats were warned by the president’s office to not comment on sensitive issues ahead of the Normandy format, according to a screenshot of a group message seen by the author. The president’s spokeswoman could not be reached for comment on this issue. Olena Zerkal, a former deputy foreign minister who resigned from her job last week largely over disagreements with the president’s office over Russia strategy, says Zelensky fails to prepare adequately to phone calls with Putin, and fears the same might happen during their bilateral meeting in Normandy. “He calls emotionally. There is never a plan for the phone call,” Zerkal says. There have been four calls between the presidents since Zelensky was elected president in April. On top of Donbas-related issues, Russia has pushed (and received Ukraine’s agreement for) a bilateral presidential negotiation on a new gas transit contract through Ukraine to Europe. The current contract runs out on December 31, and trilateral effort with EU participation have yielded no result. Moreover, Russia wants Ukraine to drop all financial claims in the Stockholm court of arbitration. Ukraine has already won $3 billion in compensation over past gas contracts, and has filed a $12.2 billion claim to counter Russian Gazprom’s legal actions. Yuriy Vitrenko, Executive Director of Naftogaz Ukraine, who has led the arbitration cases in Stockholm, says he has not been invited to Normandy for talks and he fears that Ukraine might once again agree to an unfavorable contract that contradicts European rules, as has been the case in the past. “I don’t want to go to Maidan again,” he said, referring to the 2014 Revolution of Dignity, which took place after the then President Viktor Yanukovych decided to abandon the idea of European integration for Ukraine and cosy up with Russia instead. Klympush-Tsintsadze says that current president Zelensky is also “a modernized version of the Soviet epoque, for whom Russia is a friend.” Signals coming from U.S. recently have also pushed Ukraine’s leadership to doubt how far the U.S. support stretches. Fiona Hill, a former National Security Council official in her recent testimony in the U.S. Congress said that there has been talk of a strange political swap. “The Russians [...] were signaling very strongly that they wanted to somehow make some very strange swap arrangement between Venezuela and Ukraine: [...] You want us out of your backyard [...]We have our own version of this. You're in our backyard in Ukraine. And we were getting that sent to us, kind of informally through channels. It was in the Russian press, various commentators,” Hill said. And, as relations with the United States cooled, Zelensky and his team “started building a relationship with [Russia] because these counterparts are much more understandable for them.” Zerkal says it looks like Zelensky hopes to outcharm Putin in Normandy: “This is like a concert tour, he thinks he is very likeable.” 