Andrés Gluski is a true citizen of the world. Raised in Venezuela to a European father and a mother of American decent, the complexities and allure of the world around him were not lost on him. For the past eight years, Gluski has been the President and CEO of $11 billion revenue AES, a major energy company headquartered in Arlington, Virginia, but with significant operations around the world. This long tenure as the head of the company has given him a long-term perspective in his planning. As such, he has taken remarkably progressive views on reducing his company’s reliance on coal. When he began at the company, 60 percent of its generation capacity was through coal. Today it is a 30 percent and shrinking. In its place has been a vast array of alternatives. (He notes it as everything but nuclear power.) He also has been sensitive in setting up advisory groups in the different geographies in which the company operates to ensure that the company does not misunderstand the nuances of doing business in one country versus another. Further to his long-term perspective, Gluski has focused on three strategic pillars: simplification, risk improvement, and innovation. He sees this chain of activities as inextricably linked, as simplifications itself yields risk improvement, and in de-risking the operation, the company can afford to take on an increased risk appetite that is essential in the realm of innovation. In this interview, Gluski describes his journey, his tenure as President and CEO of AES, as well as his thoughts on the future of energy. (To read an unabridged podcast version of this interview, please click this link. This is the 39th interview in the Tech Influencers series. To listen to past interviews with the likes of bestselling author Michael Lewis, Reid Hoffman, former Mexican President Vicente Fox, Steve Case, Craig Newmark, Stewart Butterfield, and Meg Whitman, please visit this link. To read future articles in this series, please follow me on on Twitter @PeterAHigh.) Peter High: You have been the chief executive officer of AES since 2011. Prior to that, you were the COO of the company, and you were a leader in multiple geographies around the world in energy with the subsidiaries of the organization. During your tenure as CEO, you have been focused on simplification, risk improvement, and innovation. Could you hit on each of the three? Andrés Gluski: When I joined in 2011, AES was in almost 30 countries and had development activities in several more. We decided that we were going to focus on fewer markets but focus more intensively on them. This is because we wanted to have a critical presence in those countries. Today, we are in 12 countries as an operator, but we are doing much more in those countries than we were previously. We are now one of the five largest renewable developers in the world outside China, and we are leaders in several technologies. In addition to expanding our geographic footprint, we are also focused on improving our credit rating and our risk profile. We tackled risk across the board because there are many aspects to risk. In addition to the geographies, it involves the type of technology you have, and commodity exposures because we are mostly a big generator. We are known as an independent power producer, so we may be exposed to technology and commodity changes. We made sure that in areas we could not hedge it financially, we would bring in the technology to decrease that risk. In Panama, we had almost 800 megawatts of hydro, but we were extremely dependent on the weather. Our business is contracted generation, so we had to supply energy at $80 a megawatt-hour to our clients. In years of drought, we would have to buy in the market. For example, there was a severe drought in Panama in 2014, and we lost $100 million as a result. We were buying energy at $300 a megawatt-hour to supply a contract at $80 per hour. Our first move was to float in a barge, and that produced thermal energy. However, that is relatively expensive and relatively small. We built an LNG regasification terminal and storage facility in Panama and an efficient combined-cycle plant. While the drought was just a bad this year, our losses are going to be marginal. This is because the price of energy is essentially capped at $120 a megawatt-hour. This is not only good for us, but it is great for Panama. The U.S. is going to be a big producer of natural gas, and it has sufficient liquefaction facilities. This has greatly helped countries in this area of the world. For example, by bringing in cheap LNG to the Dominican Republic, the country typically saves about half a billion dollars in its annual import bill. This is a much more stable price than oil prices. This allows the countries to develop industries such as tourism and services, so it is a win-win. Bringing in these new technologies has been extremely exciting. We paid down $3 billion in debt, which is roughly half our debt. Again, we have changed how we contract. For example, where we have hydros, we have reduced our level of contracting. Another element is the structure of the debt. Today, 95 percent of our debt in the subsidiaries is in the currency of that business. For example, if there is a devaluation in Brazil, we will make fewer profits, but we would not have a liquidity event. This is because our debt is in the [Brazilian] reals as well, so these balance themselves out. We are currently on the path to become investment grade for the first time in the company's history. We are working tremendously hard to get there, and we are currently one notch below. This was about reducing our geographical footprint, having real hedges, and bringing in new technologies. Some of this can be immensely interesting. For example, we have hydros in Brazil, and we are building more wind in Brazil. When it is windy, it is not raining and vice versa, which represents a natural hedge. We have also cut a great deal of costs, so we are saving close to $500 million in costs annually. We have accomplished this by centralizing certain operations, and technology has played a key role. For example, we handle all of Brazil, which includes wind and almost 3,000 megawatts of hydro, from one operating center. Regarding innovation, I was in telecom for part of my career, and I witnessed the transition of these companies. Telecom companies started as plain old telephone pots with little innovation. These companies made their money from long-distance phone calls, and they had to take a great deal of care to the local copper wires. Since then, long-distance phone calls have become free, mobility has expanded, and internet backbones have been created. These companies are making more money than they previously did, and it is a totally different business model. I lived that and saw how that change occurred, and in coming to AES, I felt that this was a ripe industry for change. I used to say that if you brought Nikola Tesla back to life in 2000, he would not have recognized the electricity grid. If you brought Alexander Graham Bell, he would not have any idea what a fiber-optic network is. That shows that the rate of change is rapid and similar to telecom, the companies that will succeed are those that are leading the change. The storage of energy is the holy grail for renewables because the problem with renewables is that they are intermittent, which I do not believe is discussed enough by the mass media. People say, "Town X is 100 percent renewables." However, while this town might buy 100 percent renewables, it is importing nonrenewables part of the time. This is because the sun is not always shining, and the wind is not always blowing. We saw an opportunity to combine lithium-ion batteries with renewables to extend the period of time that you can dispatch renewables. With renewables, the quality of the energy is more intermittent. By putting a battery between the renewable and the grid, you provide the best quality of electricity. This is perfect because you are controlling the frequency and the voltage. We started doing this over ten years ago, we are the leader, and we had some of the first large scale applications of this. As the price of batteries has come down, we have seen all sorts of new opportunities open up because nowadays, you are talking about five-hour batteries. That means five hours at 100 percent full blast. You can dispatch them at 50 percent, so that gives you a 10-hour battery at 30 percent. We have done the world's first truly 24/7 renewables on the island of Kauai with the Kauai Island Utility Cooperative [KIUC]. Here, we have solar plus batteries, and we are dispatching solar energy all day and night. We can do this because we have enough sufficient batteries. A few years ago, we recognized that we were ahead of everybody on this technology. We realized that as soon as this technology became more known, economies of scale were going to be more key. We teamed up with Siemens, which operates in 160 countries and is one of the premier electric technology companies. We had the intellectual property rights, the design, and the experience, while Siemens brought the global reach. This is an area that is going to take off. Not only is this cleaner because it is more renewable, but it is likewise a killer app. Depending on where you are and the solar irradiation, it can be cheaper than a peaking plant. A peaking plant is a gas plant that you turn on when you need it. Peaking plants are typically on 10 percent of the time, and they can do other elements such as control frequency and voltage. If you put an energy storage with lithium-ion batteries on it, you will be online 99.9 percent of the time. Where there is a great deal of solar penetration, such as in Los Angeles or Hawaii, the price of energy when you have the peak solar is zero. You can store energy at zero cost and inject it into the grid at peak hours. We believe that is going to take off around the world in island situations where it is much more difficult to have hydros as a backup or big gas plants. I am confident that this is the future, and I am happy that we are the leader in this technology. In the past few years, we have put an extreme focus on digital. We invited [former CIsco CEO] John Chambers to talk at our annual kickoff meeting. John was a spectacular speaker, and he asserted that the future of companies will depend on their digital strategy. We took this message to heart, and we work extremely hard on hiring the right people for our digital strategy. There are multiple levels to this. The simplest one is operations, which involves back-office operations. This entails being able to manage all the renewables in the U.S. from one location. While there are fewer manual entries of data, they have more data at their fingertips. Further, there is a predictive element that helps us satisfy customers' needs better, which is where we got involved in first. We bought a company called Simple Energy, which was the largest energy efficiency marketplace in the U.S. Customers would go there to buy their Nest, and it would automatically give them the subsidies that they would be receiving and automatically credit the utility. It essentially worked through the U.S. utilities. There was another company called Tendril that had more customer-based behavioral type technologies. We combined the two, and that has access to 100 million customers in the U.S. Further, it is clearly the leader in energy efficiency, cloud-based services in our sector. It is exciting to have a leader in the digital space and the energy storage space, and much of this would have been unthinkable 10 years ago. In the interim of this, we wanted to decrease our carbon footprint. When we started, 60 percent of our generation capacity was coal, but we have decreased that to 30 percent. We have sold or shut down about 4000 megawatts in the last few years, and as I previously mentioned, we have become a big builder of renewables. If you want 24/7 electricity, which everybody does, you can do it through the batteries. However, that means big investments in many places, and that is not the cheapest yet. We have combined that with existing thermal. In some locations where we have a long-term contracted thermal asset, we have gone to our clients and said, "We will replace a portion of that energy with renewables. Instead of having 24/7 thermal, you will have 12 hours of thermal seven days a week. However, the rest of the time, you are going to buy renewables from us." In many cases, building a new renewable is cheaper than the variable cost of the fuel. That is likewise decreasing our carbon footprint because what counts at the end is the intensity by gigawatt-hour. We have goals of reducing our carbon footprint by 50 percent from the original 2016 levels by 2022, and we are well on our way. We are tackling this by building renewables, bringing in LNG, and in the cases where you have to have thermal, we are combining it with renewables. We are happy about the path we have taken, and we are sure that this is the future. Eventually, I can see countries becoming 100 percent renewable with a great deal of energy storage. High: In the 14 countries you do business in, there is a difference in weather and in terms of which renewables are going to be able to work well. How do you determine what the right mix is in different geographies or even different subsets of different geographies? Gluski: First, you have the resources themselves. For example, Southern California obviously has better solar resources than Canada. On the other hand, places such as the Midwest have great wind. When we talk to our clients, we do not have a one-size-fits-all approach. We are not just a solar developer, but we look at the energy needs of the area and what the best combination is. We can do pretty much anything other than nuclear, which we do not do. If the company is focused on reducing carbon footprint, we look at how we can provide the best energy with the lowest possible carbon footprint at the best cost. We view our relationship with our clients as a partnership. In the old days, it was just about winning the bid, building the plant, and supplying the megawatt-hours. However, clients now have more specific needs, so it is about tailoring the solution to their needs. Part of this involves digital. This entails figuring out what the best customer interface is and what information they want to have. Overlaid on that, countries have different regulations. The biggest development with energy storage, for example, has been regulations. Regulations tend to be backward-looking as they are seldom right at the edge of the new technology. Much of this involved working with regulators in many locations so that they would accept energy storage and allow it onto the grid. We additionally had to figure out how to get remunerated. Storage can do aspects that the old practices could not do. For example, energy storage can not only inject energy into the grid, it can likewise withdraw. Hurricane Maria and Irma hit the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico, and in the Dominican Republic, we had energy storage next to our plants. When the hurricanes hit, those plants were able to operate and get back online much more efficiently. Typically, the power lines go down, so you suddenly have this turbine at high revs producing a great deal of energy with no one to take it. You have to shut down in emergency mode, which causes many problems. If you have energy storage, it can take up the load temporarily from that line so you can shut down the plant in an efficient way. Energy storage has shown itself to be resilient, and it helps grids be more resilient. That said, it is not accepted in all places. Some places cannot remunerate for what you can do going positive-negative and what you can do for stabilizing the grid continuously. It is not remunerated yet. There are different needs, different regulations, and different customers. In almost all of our locations, we are quite integrated with the local sector. If you go to any of our facilities, 99 percent of the people will be local, including the executives. We often have local partners from those countries, or we work with the local pension funds. I believe we are one of the most locally integrated companies of almost any big U.S. organization. We have local boards of directors with eminent people from that country, and we will have advisory boards that act similar to a board of directors in places we are not publicly listed. Here, we will invite notable locals to the board. This has given us a great feel for what is happening in these economies. We do not feel as if we are foreigners looking in, but we are getting the local views of us and the economy. High: There are various customers in this industry. There are the people who are gaining the benefit of the energy, which includes the citizens, and there are the partners within these regions. In addition to the process of being local, what other ways do you manage and get the voice of the customer at the various levels that the customers reside? Gluski: Our origin is that of a scrappy entrepreneur. We had a founder here in D.C, Roger Sant, and he worked with Dennis Bakke. They [developed] one of the first of the independent power producers. We come at this from more of a competitive point of view, as we were not the incumbent utility. I believe that is a good part of our DNA as we do not take the customer for granted, we have to win each customer. There is room for development, and I believe digital is going to be a big part of that. This is because it is about understanding what they need to know and how they want information accessed, which is key. I think Kauai is a great example of working with a local cooperative. We jointly designed this 24/7 renewables answer, and it would have been difficult to engineer this and say, "Okay, here is the answer." We had to engineer it as a result of the best understanding of what they needed. This industry is going to change, and the value is going to be with the customer. Further, much more of the value is going to be data-driven and solutions-driven. We had to get away from the idea that the value was at the generation plant, we were just had to sell the megawatts efficiently. It is now a much more interesting business. High: Can you talk about how you thought about the type of ecosystem that is necessary to bring digital together? Gluski: Going at it alone is immensely difficult for companies because this digital transformation is a change management to alter people's mindsets. It is hard to have the technical expertise in all the areas, so you have to partner with others. We have various technology partners that we are working with, and I believe we will develop these partnerships much further. Internally, there has to be a change in mindset, and people have to realize that digital and new technologies are going to make their jobs easier. There is a great fear that we are all going to be replaced by computers that are going to make all the decisions. I do not see that, certainly not in the medium term. Instead, you are going to have information at your fingertips that allow you to make better decisions. Artificial intelligence [AI] is simply a program that modifies itself based on results, so it is continually improving itself. If you are forecasting the weather and it is wrong in one direction, it will adapt. That is extremely different from doing everything you do in your job. In our business, optimizing that human-computer interaction is going to be important. It is essential to make employees feel comfortable with that relationship, rather than seeing it as a threat. Without the connectivity that I have today, my job would be exceedingly different. I would need a huge staff because I am essentially connected with the entire world 24/7. I can read memos, I can call people up, and I can have a visual interaction with people. All of these elements make everything much easier, and it is hard for me to imagine going back to the old days. For example, I was an early adopter of technologies such as the cell phone, which looked similar to a brick and there was not much coverage. When I think about how I used to operate, I wonder, "how did we get places before the GPS?" Data is critical, and we have a tremendous amount of data. We own companies that are 100 years old and have 100 years of data that we are not using to benefit the customer. We need to figure out how we are going to mine this data to create more value. High: You established how the company has gone from 60 percent on coal power to 30 percent, and you became the first publicly traded company to issue a climate report in compliance with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures [TCFD]. Being virtuous and documenting that virtue has become part of your strategy. Why did you want to be first, and can you talk about the advantages of this? Gluski: This is a values-driven company, and the founders established five values. On the company's first public offering, our values were listed as a risk. It said, "We will first think about our values before anything else." It was interesting that the bankers made the company put it as a risk because I do not see it that way. Instead, I believe it helps us avoid risks. The basic want-to-do-good DNA of this company made this easier. The difficult part is realizing that what we were great at is not the future. For example, our coal technology was among the best in the world, but that was not going to take us into the future. Figuring out how to make that switch was crucial. We were the first U.S. publicly listed energy company to come out with the TFCD. Part of this was because of that risk. In light of climate change, TFCD looks at how robust your business is. I believe that is part of this risk mitigation strategy. While it is easy to simplify it, you have to look at risk from many angles. It is not simply about geography, technology, or commodity, but it is about all of them. Additionally, we are the people who feel responsible for keeping the lights on. Because of this, our messaging is sometimes more difficult. It is much easier to message if you are just a 100 percent renewables company, but you are not the folks who keep the lights on 24/7. Many times, we have to combine the two technologies. We realized that we were in a transition, and the faster we could make that transition, the better. However, we had a foot in both worlds. From a messaging standpoint, it is more complicated, but we believe we are the people who are doing the most good. For example, we have retired 4,000 megawatts of coal and replaced it with cleaner energy. Further, we are running our thermal plants differently. The impact we have made on global climate emissions is one of the biggest. We are not just building some renewables, but we are reducing across the board. When you get deep into the technical aspect, it is more complicated than much of the discussion. If you put in renewables that force you to cycle your thermal plants inefficiently, that can negate all the benefits of CO2 reduction. This is because thermal plants are essentially similar to big tea kettles, and you have to heat them up. They are most efficient when they are run continuously. If you have to heat them up and turn them off repeatedly, it is not efficient because more fuel is used. We have developed ways of keeping them running at low levels. We used to have to run them at 50 percent to jack them up when needed, but we are now running some plants at 20 percent. We are not just taking a partial view to this, but we are looking at a global view. We are looking at the entire picture, and we want to provide countries and consumers what they can afford in the most environmentally friendly way possible. High: How do you see the evolution of places such as China and India? These are economies that are going to go through an industrial revolution similar to the U.K. in the 1800s, and they are bearing the environmental consequences. Gluski: China is the largest builder of renewables in the world, and it has subsidized effectively. The country has overbuilt its solar panel industry, which has been a big factor in driving down the cost of solar panels. In that sense, it has done a great deal. On the other hand, India is just starting to increase its electric consumption per capita. India has [more than one] billion people, and the country’s middle class is bigger than the entire U.S. population. That is where the future of global warming will be determined. We set up a 10-megawatt demonstration of energy storage in Delhi, which was the first of its kind in India. We did this to show how this works and what it can do. This will allow India to have more renewables and build fewer coal plants. We believe that this is a major needle mover. Prime Minister Modi has set up some ambitious goals for renewables, and the goals are being achieved. However, the problem is that it has to be effective, and the grid is poor. You can build renewables, but if you do not have that 24/7 capacity, you are going to build the coal plants anyway. This has attracted a tremendous amount of attention, and I believe it is the biggest contribution we are making. We are building the world's first virtual reservoir. It is difficult to get hydro dams permitted nowadays because you have to move people and cut down trees in most cases. We have a big run-of-the-river in Chile. Nobody had to move, no trees were cut down, and this generates electricity when the water runs. We are putting in energy storage. Instead of building a physical dam, we are simply using the batteries. In the past, the idea was around pump storage. Here, you would run the water down and then pump it back into the reservoir. However, electrons are much more efficient than molecules. The physics is such that it makes a great deal of sense. There is extensive interest in India because the land is scarce, there are over a billion people, but you can generate carbon-free energy from the rivers. However, to make it economically viable, this virtual reservoir is needed. High: You are a Venezuelan native, you have a Ph.D. in Economics in the United States, and you run businesses in multiple countries. You are clearly in the business where being a citizen of the world is quite useful. You understand different cultures, and you have a greater level of sensitivity compared to someone who has only lived in one country. Can you talk about some of the advantages your diverse background has provided you? Gluski: In my home, there were roughly five languages spoken. My father immigrated to Venezuela from Europe, and on my mother’s side, my grandparents immigrated from the [U.S] to Venezuela during the Great Depression. I grew up in a multicultural household, which has worked to my advantage because many problems we face are global. Not only are solving these problems global, but so are the supply chains. For example, most of the lithium-ion batteries are made in Japan, Korea, and China. Even when you are in your home field, it gives you a different perspective than if you were just coming from that one place. I believe that we need more cooperation. There are many nationalistic movements in many different parts of the world, but I do not believe that is good. Instead, all sectors of the population must feel included because part of the nationalistic movement in many places is because there is a sector of the population that feels as if it is not participating in the progress and the advantages. It is incumbent upon politicians and the corporate sector to try to include as many people as possible in the changes that are making the world a better place. High: There is a hypothesis that the experience of starting a company or working at a startup is greater than education. Could you give the counterpoint as someone who dealt so deeply into a topic as to become a Ph.D. in it and the advantages that has provided you? Gluski: Education is part of developing yourself as a person. Especially in the [U.S.], where you do not have that sort of specialization right away, I believe a liberal arts degree is great because it teaches you how to write. Economics taught me how to think in an organized fashion and introduced me to mathematics. There are aspects of academia where you know everything about nothing, so keeping that broad perspective is crucial. In today's changing world, if you do not educate yourself until your last day, you will become irrelevant. Many of our problems are complex, so they are not simple one-liners. It is more similar to questions around how you integrate technologies, how you lower your carbon footprint, and how you improve the customer experience. We need to make sure that we have spokespeople who can make sure that this technical knowledge is understandable to people. Otherwise, we are going to fall on simplistic solutions, which may not work. We need technically competent people. If you want to drop out of college and become an entrepreneur or a self-taught programmer, I understand that. However, if you are going to be operated on, you want somebody who is a specialist in their field, and not everyone's opinion is technically sound. I am not saying one opinion is more valuable, but there is value to knowing what you are talking about. Economists have a reputation that they make forecasters and astrologers look good. However, the truth is that there is a science to this. For example, cryptocurrencies are changing some of the technical aspects, such as monetary policy. We need technically competent people who understand that. You do not want a central bank that does not understand blockchain and cryptocurrencies. Economics gave me a methodology. I have never been dogmatic, but I have been eclectic in my beliefs of different theories. If the data or the circumstances change, I will change my view and use a different model. I needed that formal training to have a more disciplined train of thought, especially with the fluctuations in currencies, economies, and trade rules. Overall, my education has been invaluable for me. Peter High is President of Metis Strategy , a business and IT advisory firm. His latest book is Implementing World Class IT Strategy . He is also the author of World Class IT: Why Businesses Succeed When IT Triumphs . Peter moderates the Technovation podcast series. He speaks at conferences around the world. Follow him on Twitter @PeterAHigh. 