As part of a deal agreed yesterday with the extended clan of oil-producing countries known as OPEC+, Saudi Arabia, the ringleader, has agreed to cut production by 400,000 barrels per day above and beyond a baseline cut of 500,000 barrels per day — but only if other members quit flouting their production quotas. According to reports, Saudi Arabia framed the arrangement as a sort of quid pro quo as it seeks to get tough on non-compliance.  But even the Saudis may be betting that the three member states most notorious for producing above their quotas — Nigeria, Iraq and Russia — aren’t much more likely than before to comply with their assigned quotas. All three countries face middling economic growth and restive populations at home, giving each a strong incentive not to forego badly needed oil revenues. For those reasons, under-compliance could well continue despite Saudi Arabia’s one-time offer.  Nigeria Nigeria has long been the least compliant of the non-compliant OPEC producers, pledging to hold production to 1.69 million barrels per day under the old deal but often pumping as much as 1.8 or 1.9 million barrels per day, according to OPEC reports. The launch of a large new offshore oilfield called Egina earlier this year hasn’t helped. The Total-operated field reached its capacity of around 200,000 barrels per day — some 10% of Nigeria’s overall output — a few months after production began in January.  Nigeria is loath to reign in production at Egina or at any other of its mainly onshore crude production sites. Despite attempts to diversify its economy, as much as 95% of export earnings still come from oil sales — and it needs every penny. After contracting in 2016, Nigeria’s economy has failed to lift GDP growth above a disappointing 1-2.5%, which is where the International Monetary Fund (IMF) expects it to remain. Since Nigeria’s population is growing at a rate of around 2.5%, that means GDP per capita has actually been shrinking.  To illustrate how far Africa’s largest oil producer is willing to go to avoid cutting output, it helps to recall an episode from earlier this year. As Total began pumping Egina crude, it emerged that Nigeria would classify it as not crude oil but “condensate,” an ultra-light version of crude that would, conveniently, not count toward Nigeria’s official OPEC production quota. To be considered a condensate, crude oil typically needs to have an API gravity — a measure of lightness, where the lightest would dissolve into the air — of 40 or 45 or more. But Total’s undisputed assay of Egina assigns it a reading of just 27.3, which is actually lower than than a dozen or so other types of crude oil that Nigeria produces. Despite this, Nigeria’s then-managing director of state-owned oil company NNPC still insisted, “It is not part of the volumes we look at.”  Of course, Nigeria still mostly got it wanted from OPEC. After OPEC’s early July meeting, the cartel awarded Nigeria a higher production ceiling of 1.77 million barrels per day. It still consistently produces above that.  Iraq The second-biggest producer in OPEC after Saudi Arabia, Iraq’s crude output of close to 5 million barrels per day is set to rise still further. But with a restive population impatient for the fruits of newfound oil production growth, Iraq has strong incentives not to hold back the taps. Starting in October, protests over unemployment, poor public services and corruption have fanned out from Baghdad, escalating after security forces cracked down violently. To Iraq’s 38 million people, the country’s ability to generate more than $50 billion in annual revenue from oil and yet fail to consistently keep the electricity running is evidence of a rotten deal.  If Iraq fails to comply with Thursday’s OPEC+ agreement, it could blame unrest at home as a way to excuse any overproduction. Iraq’s oil minister, Thamir al-Ghadhan, was already using that pretext in June, when he explained at a conference in London, “There is so much pressure from the Iraqi people to provide benefits, jobs, needs for infrastructure, schools, and so on.” Russia OPEC’s dalliance with Russia dates to 2016 in its current incarnation, when the cartel had little choice but to team up with it before US shale producers ate further into market share. But Russia’s compliance record of late has been consistently poor. So far this year it has only met its quota of just above 11 million barrels per day in May, June and July, according to reports, when contaminated supplies of oil along the Druzhba pipeline badly disrupted production.  As the largest member of the non-OPEC wing of the OPEC+ group, Russia plays a critical role as the linchpin between the two groups and, as a heavily oil-dependent country itself, is deeply invested in the ability of the two groups to cooperate. Yet even for Russia, domestic concerns could be making it reluctant to forego much-needed revenues as part of any cuts. President Vladimir Putin’s popularity, once sky-high, has begun to ebb as sanctions hit the economy, which is growing at a poor 1-2%. Protests have flared up in the countryside and critics feel newly emboldened, according to a Washington Post report from June.  In the deal signed in Vienna yesterday, Russia managed to extract some concessions, potentially giving it a path to continue under-complying. For instance, Russia will be allowed to exclude any oil it produces as a byproduct of gas production.  It may be just another sign that Saudi Arabia, as much as it insists it is ready to put down any rebellion, knows the value of flexibility.  