Investors’ long-standing assumption is the higher a person’s credit score is, the more likely it is the person can pay off a loan. In reality, the primary factor in determining if one can pay off a loan is if that person can maintain steady employment. With this in mind, investors need to consider multiple vantage points, zooming in and zooming out. Above every individual’s financial history are broader macroeconomic forces that directly affect their risk profile: location, location, location. Every geography’s economic health relies on the success of specific industries. Diversifying your investment portfolio across geographies can help manage unsystematic risk — from agribusiness in the Midwest to technology in Silicon Valley. If you can successfully diversify across regions, you can simultaneously help your investments be less vulnerable to macroeconomic shifts that might affect stability in certain areas. The secret isn’t in finding the perfect place (hint: it doesn’t exist), but in hedging your bets. In West Texas, the oil industry runs the game. In 2018, the state saw the largest increase in oil industry-related jobs in the country. While high energy prices in early 2008 helped the state dodge the worst impacts of the Great Recession, today, declining oil prices are making executives worry about future job growth and a slowing of the state economy.    For investors acquiring loans from communities in San Jose and Palo Alto, California, two cities heavily dependent upon the tech industry, if the all-powerful tech bubble were to burst tomorrow, they’d be facing gigantic losses. Or take Detroit in the mid-20th century. Once the crowning jewel of the country’s first auto boom, prosperity within the city took a devastating turn after the industry restructured and relocated many of its plants to surrounding towns. Residents in Detroit proper were suddenly without work, and the economic turning of the city began. Keeping geographic diversity in mind inherently helps foster versatility and durability within a portfolio, and provides benefits for investors while mitigating risk. According to an article by Visual Capitalist, data monitoring the behavior of 40,000 investors showed that people tend to invest where they live. People on the West Coast are 20% more likely to invest in tech. More investors in the South invest in energy than any other region, and people on the East Coast are more likely to own financial investments. This type of area-code allegiance leaves funds highly susceptible to the macroeconomic ups and downs of a single location. A study on international diversification showed that portfolios containing an aggregate of investments from different countries earned more consistent returns than portfolios built solely around the best-performing country. This concept applies domestically, as well. By placing your bets on the well-being of a variety of economic forces (the price of oil, the success of tech, the prosperity of farmers, the health of the auto industry, etc.), you’re helping your portfolio withstand occasional downturns so no one shift wipes out your earnings. Ray Kroc, the powerhouse behind the international rise of McDonald’s, once said, “The two most important requirements for major success are: first, being in the right place at the right time, and second, doing something about it.” Step back; take a bird’s-eye view. Now, what are you waiting for? The information provided here is not investment, tax or financial advice. You should consult with a licensed professional for advice concerning your specific situation. 