Among the many subplots to emerge from recent impeachment hearings, one, in particular, might have been unexpected: fracking. In recent testimony to House lawmakers, Fiona Hill, John Bolton’s former direct report at the National Security Council and the White House’s former top expert on Russia, reported that Russian propaganda was working to undermine the use of hydraulic fracturing, aka fracking, in the United States. Such news was easy to overlook amidst a steady stream of bombshells from the hearings, but lawmakers should take note. After all, fracking has been - and continues to be - an essential part of America’s energy renaissance and an indispensable tool in ensuring energy security. Why is Russia so interested in American natural gas production? In her testimony, Hill explained that Putin “saw American fracking as a great threat to Russian interests” and that a fracking ban would “play into strengthening Putin’s hands.” That’s because natural gas supplies are central to European economic markets. Not only do more abundant gas supplies make the U.S. stronger, but they make us more capable of supplanting Russia as a key supplier of European gas. Russia desires neither of those outcomes, mainly since it has used its largest gas company, Gazprom, as a weapon of political influence in Europe for years to significant effect. The evidence of Russian meddling in the fracking debate is clear. For example, a 2017 report by the Director of National Intelligence, drafted in coordination with the CIA, FBI, and NSA–ODNI, found that “as the threat of American energy continues to grow, so does the Kremlin’s incentive to influence energy operations in Europe and the United States.” The report also noted that RT, the “Kremlin’s principal international propaganda outlet,” is engaged in an anti-fracking campaign in the U.S. as a way to combat American gas production and the threat it poses to Russia’s projection of power in Europe through Gazprom. A 2018 majority staff report by the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology found that more than 4 percent of tweets from IRA, the agency behind Russia’s cyber campaign to influence the 2016 presidential election, were “related to energy or environmental issues, a significant portion of content when compared to the 8 percent of IRA tweets that were related to the election in the U.S.” The campaign isn’t a new one, of course. Hill reported in her testimony that Putin made it “very clear” he saw American fracking as a threat as far back as 2011, the same time as RT first tweeted about fracking. In the years since, RT has unleashed a barrage of critical tweets about U.S. fracking, calling American shale gas “another Ponzi fraud” in 2013; describing shale gas as a “bubble about to bust” in 2015; declaring in 2015 that the shale boom would be over by year’s end; writing in 2018 that shale’s “glory days are numbered;” and announcing in August that “time is almost up for U.S. shale industry.” Indeed, RT is obsessed with American fracking, it even produced its anti-fracking documentary and celebrated New York’s fracking ban, saying, “New York is now leading by example.” Degrading America’s energy production is clearly on the minds of Kremlin officials. There is bipartisan agreement here. It was on the mind of Hillary Clinton in 2014 when she revealed in a speech that “We [the State Department] were even up against phony environmental groups” battling American natural gas pipelines and fracking and that “a lot of the money supporting that message was coming from Russia.” That same year, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, then-NATO Secretary-General, reported, “I have met allies who can report that Russia, as part of their sophisticated information and disinformation operations, engaged actively with so-called non-governmental organizations – environmental organizations working against shale gas – to maintain European dependence on imported Russian gas.” The evidence speaks for itself: Russia is heavily involved in attempts to undermine U.S. fracking. Hopefully, Fiona Hill’s description of this in impeachment hearings will be sufficient evidence for lawmakers to call attention to this interference in U.S. policy decisions on energy security and economic growth. U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren was correct when she said that “Putin must be held accountable – not rewarded” for Russia’s interference in America’s politics. Here’s hoping Warren and the rest of Congress acknowledge that banning the practice of fracking to produce oil and gas would diminish America’s security and give the Kremlin precisely what it wants.