“I read that emissions from flying equals that of car traffic,” wrote a participant in a new Swedish study on Flygskam, or “flight shame,” adding that “it made me realize how large the problem of flying is.” If people are now acting on worries that flying is frying the planet, shouldn’t they also come to the same conclusion about driving? Could “drive shame” become a thing? It needs to—reducing miles driven would be a quicker, easier and cheaper solution than converting to electric today’s fleet of gas-guzzlers. (Electric vehicles only account for 1.5 % of newly registered passenger vehicles in the EU.) EU Commission president Ursula von der Leyen presented her European Green Deal on December 11, but Transport & Environment, a European research and campaign group, warned that much more needs to be done if the EU wants to fully decarbonize transport, and transition to a net-zero economy by 2050. Transport is Europe’s most significant source of carbon emissions, contributing 27% to the EU’s total CO2 emissions, with cars and vans representing more than two-thirds of these, according to the European Environment Agency. (Aviation is responsible for about 2.5 % of carbon dioxide emissions worldwide.) The EU’s European Green Deal, financed from a new €100-billion fund, plans for a 50-55% emissions reduction target by 2030 and wants member states to replace all combustion engine motor vehicles with zero-emission equivalents through a combination of new standards, ubiquitous charging infrastructure, and “green” batteries. (The E.U. also plans to end aviation’s tax holiday and make sure shipping pays for its emissions.) However, despite appearances, the automotive industry is moving slowly on electric vehicles, and consumers are voting with their wallets: the car of choice right now is the sport utility vehicle or SUV. Growing demand for SUVs was the second-largest contributor to the increase in global CO2 emissions from 2010 to 2018, said an analysis by the International Energy Agency (IEA) earlier this year. In that period, SUVs doubled their global market share from 17% to 39%. This uptick in sales could negate all the environmental benefits of the increased use of electric cars, said the IEA. And because of their bulk, SUVs are harder to electrify than smaller vehicles. (Tesla’s Cybertruck is electric, but its armored form makes it less than ideal for city streets.) The power of new cars has also increased by 28% in the last decade, increasing fuel consumption and emissions, reports Transport & Environment: “Such changes in the cars being sold have helped improve industry profitability but should have necessitated carmakers shifting—at the same time—to much more efficient technologies such as hybrids.” However, continues the research organization, “most have declined to do so.” Instead of more car trips, we need more guilt trips. Driving for journeys that could be done easily by other modes—public transport, walking, and cycling—should become shameful, believe many commentators. Writing in Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists on November 18, American science writer Dawn Stover admitted she owns an SUV but, when pulling in to park, she said she hoped “I won’t see any of my friends who are environmental activists.” “I don’t have kids. I don’t fly often,” she asserted. “But I have a big honkin’ SUV that is killing the planet.” In July, the head of OPEC, the cartel that controls much of the world’s oil production, called climate strikers the “greatest threat” to his industry. These strikers—epitomized by teen phenom Greta Thunberg—don’t use the language of hope, believing their greatest weapon is shame. “We are in the beginning of a mass extinction, and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of eternal economic growth,” Thunberg told heads of state during the U.N. General Assembly in New York in September. “How dare you,” she emphasized. Earlier this month, Thunberg journeyed back to Europe on La Vagabonde, a small catamaran, telling reporters: “I’m not traveling like this because I want everyone to do so. I’m doing this to send a message that it is impossible to live sustainably today, and that needs to change.” Thunberg—made Person of the Year by Time Magazine on December 11—began a global shaming movement by skipping school. Starting in August 2018, she spent her days camped out in front of the Swedish Parliament, holding a sign that read Skolstrejk för klimatet: “School Strike for Climate.” After her solo strike went mainstream, the 16-year-old quickly became the world’s most recognizable climate campaigner. She told British MPs in April that the U.K. government’s aggressive support for fossil fuels and airport expansion was “beyond absurd.” She added: “This ongoing irresponsible behavior will no doubt be remembered in history as one of the greatest failures of humankind.” Thunberg’s mother–opera singer Malena Ernman–pledged in 2017 to stop flying, joining other Swedes who have coalesced around the concept of flygskam. (There’s a linked neologism, tagskryt, or “train bragging”–using social media to highlight intercity train journeys, often accompanied with the hashtag #stayontheground.) A survey published on May 31 by Swedish Railways (S.J.) found that 37% of respondents chose to travel by rail instead of air, compared with 26% last autumn and 20% in early 2018. Until recently, Swedes were among the most profligate flyers on the planet. According to a report commissioned by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, in 2017 Sweden’s entire aviation sector accounted for 1.1 tonnes of emissions per person, five times the global average of 0.2 tonnes per person. This love affair with flying is fading fast: Swedavia, which operates Sweden’s ten busiest airports, has reported that domestic passenger numbers fell by 8% from January to April, following a 3% fall over the whole of last year. Swedes are switching fast because climate change is particularly noticeable in Sweden, with the Swedish Meteorological Institute reporting recently that the average annual temperature was rising twice as quickly in the country as the global average. Last year, Sweden experienced the hottest and one of driest summers since records began, coupled with the country’s worst-ever forest fires. While many Swedes are now flying less, it will take much longer for them to kick the driving habit. Famously, Sweden is home to Volvo, maker of heavy cars, including SUVs. And while the Swedish government pioneered the “vision zero” road safety program in 1997, it does not explicitly champion driving less. Governments around the world are supremely unwilling to constrain demand for motorized mobility. Car use is often seen as a bellwether for a strong economy. Modeling from the International Transport Forum (ITF) suggests that more than 90% of cars could be removed from the road in cities such as Lisbon and Helsinki through ride-sharing, but the concept remains largely untapped. In truth, shaming people for flying is a relatively easy task—only about 3 % of the global population fly each year—but motoring is deeply entrenched in most societies around the world. Shaming people for driving is going to be tough. Reducing mobility is a challenge to the liberal idea of free movement. However, when this mobility is motorized, individualized, and mostly unfettered, it can be said to infringe on the freedom of others. Today’s mass motoring doesn’t just cause congestion and health problems for today’s citizens; it worsens the climate crisis and adversely affects future generations. For shame. 