This seems to be the season of the protester, from Hong Kong to Chile, from Iran to France, and political commentators are busy trying to suss out the many causes and draw the appropriate lessons, while consultants rake in money helping politicians quell voter anger. Most pertinent for this piece is this dichotomy: liberals highlight protests against climate change, while conservatives note anger in countries like Iran and France over hikes in fuel prices and taxes. It could be argued that the public is confused — thinking simultaneously that government should promote policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, while being nevertheless unwilling to pay for those same policies. Politicians have long complained of voters who want both lower taxes and more services. Cognitive dissonance, as they say. And the confusion is heightened by politicians who argue that lower tax rates will increase tax revenue (the so-called Laffer curve), though this effect tends only to happen in certain circumstances, such as during a recession when the economy has a lot of unused capacity, or when state taxes goods so high that residents cross state lines to buy gasoline, alcohol, cigarettes, etc. Some climate change activists may have contributed to protesters’ unhappiness by arguing that renewable energy is cheap and conservation always provides high returns, the “negawatt” and “negabarrel” arguments. This unwittingly sends a message that consumers don’t need to take action, normal market forces will fix things. Then, the government raises taxes on energy to reduce consumption and emissions, and the public rises up. (It could be argued that conservatives are just as much to blame, if French protesters thought higher fuel taxes were unnecessary because they believed climate change to be a hoax, as maintained by a few prominent, but non-expert, persons. I personally haven’t seen any evidence this has been a factor.) But it would be a mistake to overstate opposition to climate change policies as prime movers, even in protests specifically responding to higher fuel prices. The bulk of such protests are not informed either way by climate change but rather by social welfare concerns, namely, citizens not wanting to pay more for goods, such as gasoline. This is worsened in countries where the governments subsidize energy, as in Iran, because in doing so the government has de facto accepted responsibility for the level of prices, rather than leaving them to market forces. Again, governments are not learning from history. As far back as 75 BCE, Romans rioted over rising grain prices, which had been decontrolled several years earlier by Lucius Cornelius Sulla Felix, commonly referred to as Sulla, presumably influenced by the Milton Friedman and the Chicago School. The fact that the protesting public in some countries, like Iran, feel alienated from their government is clear. Decontrol of oil prices has led to public unrest in even the most democratic of countries, such as the U.S. and Canada. (Granted, unhappiness was expressed through the ballot rather than violence.) But in countries like Egypt, Iran, and Venezuela, the citizenry often feel they have so little influence in government decisions that taking to the street is the only response. Sadly, at a time when politicians, activists and economists are all pushing for a reduction in fossil fuel subsidies, which primarily take the form of selling energy at below market prices to the public, it appears that this most logical of climate change policies will rarely be implemented not because of government unconcern but because of government unpopularity and inability to undertake logical but painful steps. Promoting democratic reforms in countries like Egypt, Iran and Venezuela has not been done for its own sake, and is unlikely to be done to save the climate.