U.S. soybean exports to China have fallen $5.6 billion since August of 2018, when overall U.S. exports to China first fell on a monthly basis, a victim to the then-nascent trade war. Overall exports to China have fallen every month since when compared to the same month in the previous year, 18 in a row through October, the most recent data available from the U.S. Census Bureau. Cell phone imports are down $13.25 billion since last November, the first month that overall Chinese imports into the United States went negative. Imports from China have fallen 11 of the last 12 months. Computer imports are off $5.72 billion, crude oil exports to China are down $4.87 billion. Video game consoles imports are down $1.53 billion, motor vehicle part exports are down $2.46 billion. All told, U.S. exports to China and U.S. imports from China are down $84 billion in the two, similar periods since trade first felt the effects of the trade war — since August for exports and November for imports. Total toll: Just shy of $30 billion for exports, $54 billion for imports. What’s interesting, though, as the United States and China work to close out the first-tier agreement to end the trade war between the world’s two largest economies, which was announced Friday, is what’s happening in those monthly U.S. Census Bureau numbers. U.S. imports from China fell at the fastest rate since the onset of the trade war, the most recent data shows, which potentially gives President Trump an important advantage against Xi Jinping, particularly since U.S. exports to China fell at the slowest rate in 15 months. But it’s not that simple. One challenge: Interpreting the divergence correctly. Does it mean China’s resolve is weakening? Does it mean that the U.S. economy is tilting toward a slowdown. Does it mean both? Neither? This column looks primarily at U.S. imports from China, which fell 30.03% in October, when compared to the previous October, the latest Census Bureau data available. A second column looks primarily at U.S. exports to China, which fell 2.53% in October. To prepare both, I poured over monthly U.S. trade data for the last four years, looking at more than 2,400 export and import products. The announcement of progress in the trade war came two days before the deadline for the United States adding tariffs on the remaining $150 billion in U.S. imports from China, which Trump had threatened. That possibility of escalation was worrisome to economists, global markets and both leaders. Already, this trade war is the most serious disruption in global commerce in nine decades. Trump had initially said trade wars were easy to win and, later, than he would settle for nothing short of one big agreement. But trade wars, are complex and multi-faceted, particularly between the world’s two largest economies aren’t easy and particularly when, in this case, Trump wants to tackle real, substantive, long-standing issues amidst other factors — a U.S. impeachment trial, U.S. elections, a new NAFTA agreement, all on his side and, on the other, unprecedented Hong Kong protests, a decimating swine virus affecting the critical pork industry, global criticism of the harsh treatment of Muslims in northwest China, and the slowest economic growth in three decades. As the two sides try to complete the first phase, with the intent to finalize the agreement in January, and prepare for entering the second, more compliated phase of negotiations, here’s a look a look at the imports which lost the most value since November: Were it not for the divergence — that export losses are slowing while import losses are increasing — I would say that China was winning, at least on the trade front. That’s because of the combined $84 billion in losses from exports and imports during the periods examined, the seemingly smaller export loss of $30 billion of total exports is about double the percentage loss of the $54 billion in import loss. That is, of course, because we import more from China than we export to China, the essential rub for President Trump, who is angling for, among other things, greater exports of U.S. agricultural products. About 6% of U.S. exports go to China while about 18% of U.S. imports come from there. Here’s a look at the U.S. imports from China that have fallen the most since they first started falling, in November of 2018: