You've done a great job over the past year. You've upped your retirement savings, and you've come close to maxing out your 401(k) or IRA account. All should be good as long as you get the 10% returns that are commonly touted by personal finance gurus. While the stock market has averaged compounded long-term gains of around 10%, there is no guarantee that it will do so in 2020. The current bull market is getting pretty long in the tooth, and what goes up will eventually come down. There are many things that can negatively impact your retirement account, and some of them will not readily come to mind. However, many of them are within your control. 1. A Recession The first reason your retirement might decline in value is probably the one you hear about the most. A recession can cause investments to decline in value, and it can cause this decline to happen in rapid succession. During the last recession, the S&P 500 dropped by a whopping 37% in 2008 alone. When the internet bubble burst around the turn of the millennium, the market dropped for three straight years. Recessions can happen for a number of reasons. The current trade war is impacting the ability of farmers in the Midwest and manufacturers in traditional hubs to find markets for their products. If American producers cannot make sales, they will not make profits, and productivity could suffer if the increased tariffs continue for long. Recessions can also occur when there's a shock to the credit markets. Many major banks took on excessive leverage in the years leading up to the Great Recession. They sold risky mortgages as investment-grade opportunities. Once the housing bubble burst, these banks that had taken on high levels of leverage did not have enough cash available to meet their obligations. Inflation can also contribute to recessions. The price of oil increased from an average of $12 a barrel in 1998 to more than $94 a barrel in 2008. This average for 2008 included a massive crash in the market after the Great Recession reared its ugly head. When people have to spend more on ordinary expenses, they have less to spend on discretionary items, and this can lead to a recession. Whatever the cause of a recession, your 401(k) is likely to go down in value. 2. Investing Too Conservatively Even if there's a recession in 2020, it's likely that the market will recover over time. By attempting to avoid the pain of a recession, many people will decide to invest in more conservative assets. This might include CDs or shares in a money market account. These will not likely lose money in a recession, but they will not achieve the 8% or 10% compounded growth that stocks will likely see over the long run. It's highly unlikely that a 401(k) that holds all contributions in money market funds or Treasury bonds will grow as much as a portfolio that holds stock funds. Over time, an overly conservative retirement account allocation will likely experience lower growth. 3. Paying High Fees When investing in mutual funds through your 401(k) or IRA, it's important to know the fees. Your manager might offer two different large-cap funds. One might be a standard passive S&P 500 index fund with a management fee of around 0.10%. Another might be an actively managed fund that has managers who attempt to juice their returns by trading in and out of positions. For their expertise, the fund managers might charge a fee of around 1% a year. If the latter fund's long-term returns are not at least 0.90% higher, you're likely to see better returns by opting for the cheap index fund. When most people think of compounding, dividends and capital gains are in view. Management fees also compound, but they do so in the wrong direction. Higher fees can cost tens or hundreds of thousands when compounded over decades. Therefore, you'll want to take them into consideration in 2020. 4. Leakage One of the biggest problems that can lead to lower returns in a retirement plan over time is known as leakage. Emergencies happen. People leave their jobs. This can lead to a temptation to remove some or all of the funds that are in a 401(k) or IRA. This is generally a bad idea. You can't go back and replace that money in the fund, which generally receives favorable treatment when it comes to taxes. By withdrawing your funds from traditional retirement plans before age 59 1/2, you'll have to pay income taxes on the withdrawal. You'll also have to pay a 10% early withdrawal penalty. This leakage is a major reason why Americans have retirement fund balances that are well below what they'll need to maintain a high standard of living. 5. Failing To Save One of the biggest negative impacts on retirement plans around the nation is caused by people failing to save in the first place. The stock market might go up 20% in 2020. A retirement fund that started the year with $100,000 would end the year with around $120,000. Those who fail to open up an account will wind up with $0 — 20% of $0 is still $0. If you're looking to build up a healthy level of retirement savings, you'll need to put an emphasis on the savings part. This will require you to open an account and funnel money into it with every check you receive. Of the many things that can impact your 401(k) or IRA in 2020, only a market downturn is really out of your control. You can choose to save money and put it toward investments that are likely to grow over the long term. You can also choose to leave that money invested when there's a temptation to pull it out. By considering the long run, you'll likely be able to weather any storms that hit in 2020 and negatively impact your retirement fund in the immediate term. 