The Supreme Court of New York’s recent ruling to dismiss the state’s lawsuit against ExxonMobil for failing to properly account for the potential costs of future climate change legislation is a good thing not just for the rule of law but, ultimately, for people who desire legislation to truly address climate change. The New York attorney general who initiated the case, the now-disgraced Eric Schneiderman, began the state’s investigation into the company’s actions in 2015, alleging that the company was deliberately understating the potential long-run impact of future legislation or litigation related to climate change on its profits. Schneiderman was one of several state attorneys general who pursued a legal action of some sort against ExxonMobil and other fossil-fuel producing companies. These coordinated efforts were primarily concerned with pursuing an overtly political agenda rather than pursuing the law. This legal investigation and subsequent lawsuit gradually fell apart for a variety of reasons, the main one of which being the fact that ExxonMobil did, in fact, place a value on the potential cost of complying with potential future regulations limiting carbon emissions, it spent considerable resources grappling with the likely outcome, and it provided this information to its shareholders. The litigation ultimately hinged on whether the estimate it used in public documents corresponded to what it had internally concluded was the most accurate value, and the states subpoenaed documents from ExxonMobil and various other entities it worked with in an effort to shed light on this the internal debate. The Attorney General’s office argued that its internal calculation diverged from what the company provided to its shareholders. However, the lawsuit failed because the notion that the company was attempting to obfuscate the impact of future governmental actions to address climate change and cheat its shareholders was simply untenable. The idea that the company’s assessment of the impact of the future costs of conforming to future climate change legislation could mislead investors represents an incredibly naive perspective: Anyone who invests in a fossil fuel company is surely aware of the incredibly robust debate over what needs to be done—and what governments will be able to do—to address climate change. Anyone who subscribes to a major newspaper will find it difficult to escape it. While some argue that the current stasis is likely to change soon, it is impossible to know how and when it will change, even for someone who possesses an unerring ability to prognosticate future elections both here and abroad. The case included the assistant comptroller for corporate governance and responsible investing for New York City testifying that he had not, in fact, read the “Managing Risk” or “Energy Outlook” reports that were allegedly misleading. A senior energy analyst for Wells Fargo acknowledged he had read them but did not think much of them, and that neither the reports nor the lawsuit affected his long-term valuation of the company. Bloomberg columnist Matt Levine noted that the litigation appeared to make a basic accounting mistake: While Exxon’s managers did use current cost of oil instead of a proxy cost, it did so only to project the cost of potential projects. It takes into account its reckoning of the impact of climate change activities by the government when it projects future oil prices—the benefits side of its project cost-benefit analysis. This bifurcation makes perfect sense: the company incurs short-run costs to do a new project, so abstracting from future climate change legislation makes sense—that likely won’t matter much in the short run. Since the intent of more regulations or a carbon tax would be to lessen demand and lower future oil prices net of taxes, including it on the benefits side of the ledger is altogether right and proper. Most damning in the eyes of the judge was the fact that the supposedly misleading documents—most notably the 2014 Exxon reports that the Attorney General cited—did nothing to impact oil prices at the time, which is an indication that no one paid it much attention. For fraud to occur, someone needs to have been fooled. The Attorney General did not call any investor witnesses who testified that they were misled. I believe the environment would benefit greatly from a carbon tax and I hope that Congress manages to devote itself in the near future—regardless of the 2020 election outcome. But having the states’ attorneys general attempting to punish supposed climate malfeasance as securities fraud makes little sense.