 Saudi Aramco (SR:2222) has emerged as the most valuable publicly traded company in history. Since opening on the Saudi stock exchange December 11, the valuation of the national oil giant jumped to $2 trillion ($2.03 trillion to be exact) – thanks to a surge on the first day of trading with a 10% increase in share price. Saudi Aramco began trading at 32 riyals (or $8.53) and stands at 36.70 riyals ($9.78) as of this writing. Though the stock experienced a 0.7% dip Tuesday morning – its first decline since the IPO launch – shares are still an impressive 18% above the open price. Whether it holds that astronomical valuation depends in large part on political factors. Expectations were high for the initial public offering (IPO) from the most profitable company in the world. With the oil giant responsible for 10% of global oil production and adding $111 billion to the Kingdom’s economy in 2018, Aramco was an exciting prospect for many investors from the beginning. But since its announcement in 2016, the Saudi Aramco IPO has faced several setbacks and delays. As I wrote last month, valuation of the IPO faced uncertainty due to low oil prices, climate change concerns and geopolitical unrest in the region. Global backlash and condemnation for the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, tanker attacks across the Persian Gulf, and the missile strikes against Saudi Arabia’s Abqaiq and Khurais oil industry targets justly appear as strong disincentives for long-term institutional investors. Moreover, heavy influence from Crown Prince Mohammad Bin Salman in the company’s affairs left financiers wary of political exposure. International bankers have long warned The Kingdom that a $2 trillion valuation was optimistic at best, with most putting Saudi Aramco’s valuation at $1.7 trillion before it entered the market last week. But backed by heavy investment from wealthy Saudi families, regional allies, and speculators, Aramco was able to achieve record-breaking value. According to experts, 75% of the institutional money in the Aramco IPO comes from Saudi company funds and government agencies. Over 97% of the retail investors are exclusively from Saudi Arabia and the Gulf — highlighting Aramco’s deficit of global investment. Thus far only 1.5% of the company has been sold despite an announced goal of 5%, with the majority of buyers coming from Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi. A lower valuation by global financial institutions forced Saudi Aramco executives to shift focus away from foreign investors – the primary target of the IPO – to local investors in the Gulf region. Subsequently, patriotic and political factors, buoyed by prospecting hedge funds, are the main drivers of Aramco’s strong stock price. So, has the IPO reached its expectations? Certainly, Saudi officials are framing the historic valuation as a resounding success. The initial offering or ‘float’ has already generated an estimated $25.6 billion, which will be put towards Prince Bin Salman’s Vision 2030, a national plan to diversify the Kingdom’s economy away from fossil fuels and bring sweeping social reforms. But $25 billion is a far cry from the initially anticipated $100 billion (projected from a 5% sell-off) and current investment still lacks the international diversification sought by executives. The national oil company is still not trading on prominent Western stock exchanges in London and New York, and overwhelming local and regional participation raises questions about the long-term sustainability. New York-based ratings agency Fitch also reduced the country’s credit score from A+ to an A – citing geopolitical and military risks in the region. The Aramco IPO is unequivocally impressive, but upon closer inspection the valuation appears to be regionally limited. It faces significant geopolitical and market headwinds. The real test for Aramco will come as stakes become available on exchanges outside of Riyadh. Aramco’s shares are set to enter into the MSCI emerging markets index today, December 18, and the global benchmark FTSE December 19th. Therefore, this week should provide better insight into the appetite of international investors, and the longer term viability of the historic IPO. With Assistance from Natasha Orehowsky 