Jason Zweig recently published a fascinating column on research into the value of investing in commodities, including oil and other industrial materials as well as agricultural products. It described analysis of the historical behavior of and returns on commodities by Summerhaven Investment Management which concluded that, across a long period and a broad range of contracts, the returns were 5.2% better than cash, almost as good as equities.  This type of research is extremely useful but it is always valuable to recall the boilerplate phrase, “Past performance is no guarantee of future results.” That phrase always comes to mind when people talk about using AI for investment purposes, since a primary aspect of artificial intelligence is that it learns from experience. The question is, when does experience fall down? Certainly, the most famous case was described in the book, When Genius Failed, about how hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management went under when the ruble collapsed in 1998. That move took the ruble’s value well outside the historical range used in the company’s models,  Can the same thing be expected in oil? Well, yes. One of my favorite graphs (sadly, I don’t remember who first used it) showed the relationship between the price of oil and U.S. private sector crude stocks, as below. The correlation is very high and the causality seems quite clear: higher supply means lower prices, lower supply means higher prices.  Except that the relationship only holds for the period 1995-2003; after that it reverses, as the next figure shows. Political risk, or the security premium, is the typical explanation for this seemingly aberrant behavior, where higher stocks lead to higher prices. In reality, higher risk leads to both higher prices and higher demand for inventory. Given that risk is perceived, not tangible, I’m not sure how well an AI program could measure it, let alone predict it. Of course, beyond the changing relationship between stocks and prices, there is the fact that while crude stocks predict prices, the predictors of crude stocks are many and varied including refinery runs, imports, demand, weather in major ports, economic growth, price (expected, absolute, and differentials, crude and product) and on and on. As the figure below shows, there is enormous variance in crude stock movements, even in the period from 1995 to 2003, when the correlation with prices appears strong. Predicting prices from crude stock movements thus is of much more use in hindsight than foresight. Looking at the figure below, it seems easy to predict the 1986 oil price collapse (especially in hindsight), given the plummeting OPEC market share. On the other hand, the price also collapsed in 1998 and 2015, neither of which as the result of pressure on OPEC as a whole or Saudi Arabia specifically. Personally, I did not anticipate the 2015 oil price collapse (I predicted the drop to $50-60, but expected it later), given that Saudi production was close to record levels, so even non-artificial intelligence can fail. (Shocking, I know.)  Ultimately, I feel that AI programs will be useful, but given the large subjective (human) influence on oil prices, they will probably always be outperformed by good analysts. 