What a difference a decade makes. At this time in 2009, Delta Air Lines was just beginning to stagger to its feet after losing $15.8 billion over the previous five years, making a long run through bankruptcy and merging with another carrier that had also just gone through bankruptcy, Northwest Airlines, in hopes that somehow two drunks could help each other return to financial sobriety. Nevertheless, against long odds it worked. Ten years later, formerly weak and wounded Delta sits atop the global airline industry, more than a third larger, with five straight years of $5 billion-plus annual pre-tax profits (including 2019) totaling nearly $30 billion. What’s more, the Atlanta-based carrier is positioned to kick butt and take names in the years ahead after evolving in recent years to become: Therefore, it’s with some justification that airline analysts on Wall Street can’t seem to contain their praise for Delta these days. Since the carrier hosted its annual investor day event at its Atlanta headquarters earlier this month, a number of big name analysts have raised their target share price for Delta over the next one to two years to the $67-$69 range. Currently Delta trades at around $58-$59. So that means analysts now expect the company’s shares to increase by as much 20% in value over the next 12 to 24 months. For a company that was considered a weak sister 10 years ago in a chronic money-losing industry, Delta’s turnaround, while not exactly new news anymore, is still rather astounding. Sure, as an airline, Delta remains subject to way too many kinds of risk to completely enumerate here. But some of the most obvious ones would be: So, those who would take Delta’s current string of impressive successes and analysts’ almost unrestrained cheering from the sidelines as signals that it’s okay to bet heavily on airline stocks now should remember the old saw: “the way to make a million dollars in the airline business is to start with a billion dollars.” But for those willing to accept a higher-than-average amount of investment risk and who have determined to buy into today’s more rationally structured and operated airline industry, Delta is probably the pick of the litter right now. At their investor day event this month Delta executives forecast that the company will see revenue growth of between 4% and 6% to nearly $50 billion in 2020. That’s on top of revenue growth this year of around 7% (the final number won’t be known until the airline issues its final results for 2019 in late January). But how’s a company operating in a supposedly “mature” industry going to achieve that kind of revenue growth? Well, in addition to actually adding more flights and seats to its menu in 2020, Delta plans not only to maintain but increase its so-called revenue premium (it’s ability to get a bit more money per ticket sold or per passenger revenue mile flown by using its actual and/or perceived superior service and passenger experience to attract an outsized share of business travelers plus leisure travelers willing to pay a little extra for that real or perceived superior service). CEO Ed Bastian recently has been touting Delta ability in the last few years to grow its revenues generated from so-called “premium-class” travelers at twice the rate of its overall revenue growth, a data point that highlights Delta’s success in attracting travelers willing to pay a little more for better service and/or travel experiences. On top of all that, Delta’s also positioned to begin cashing in as never before on its credit card relationship with American Express. Delta is now AmEx’s biggest business partner and source of business. And that relationship is expected to generate an additional $4 billion in revenue for Delta this year and a projected $4.4 billion in 2020. 