Growing up in India, Vivek Agarwal never imagined he’d be running an eco-friendly swimsuit line. A menswear line? Sure. But women’s bathing suits? Not so much. Fast forward to today and that’s exactly what’s happening in Agarwal’s life. Agarwal launched OOKIOH in March 2018, following his longtime calling to be in the fashion industry. With a lack of formal education in the field, or any technical expertise or experience, Agarwal put all his savings and resources into his direct-to-consumer swimwear brand. And it worked. Because everyone from the Hadid sisters to Gabrielle Union, Behati Prinsloo, Kendall Jenner, and Hailey Bieber have been spotted rocking an OOKIOH swimsuit – suits which also happen to be made from recycled ocean waste and regenerated materials, even landing Agarwal on the cover of Women’s Wear Daily’s Earth Day edition earlier this year. So, with just over 7,000 Instagram followers (compare that to Mara Hoffman’s 491,000) and only an online store, how did Agarwal shape OOKIOH to become one of the hottest swimsuit brands of the year? Well, this is how. Breanna Wilson: How does a boy from India with a degree in mechanical engineering end up designing bathing suits made from recycled ocean waste? Vivek Agarwal: I grew up in Rourkela – a small town in India. I used to sketch Bollywood-inspired menswear even as a kid, and I always wanted to be in the fashion domain. However, I ended up doing engineering because that was what everyone around me did. It was considered safe. Two years ago, after a whirlwind of experiences including manufacturing steel, a master’s in real estate, and working for a mall developer in Chicago, I decided to pursue my passion in the fashion industry finally, and that led me to OOKIOH. It’s not necessarily the mechanical engineering courses but that engineering mindset and analytical skills that one develops that has helped me across industries. It helps one to see things objectively, based on numbers and data, and make informed decisions. BW: The suits are made from 100% regenerated material (including waste found in the ocean), what does that mean? And why was it important for you to have a swimsuit line that was eco-friendly? VA: I didn't start with sustainability as a motivation or to build a moat around the brand. I never thought that there was another option; sustainability is a responsibility, and that is part of OOKIOH's DNA. Nylon and Elastane are the main components of traditional swimsuit fabrics. Unlike Nylon, which is derived from crude oil production, the yarn for our suits is entirely made from wastes such as sunken fishing nets from the oceans and aquaculture, fabric scraps from mills, and carpets destined for landfill. The yarn made from this processing of wastes "regenerates" the Nylon and other compounds for reuse. BW: You’re also working to eliminate plastic from all of your packaging and systems – what steps are you taking to do that? VA: Yes – we are committed to becoming plastic-free in the next three years. We are talking to manufacturers worldwide to source compostable dust jackets, polymailers, etc. in smaller quantities and yet be affordable, so that we can pass the benefits to our customers. OOKIOH's mission is to make sustainable swimwear accessible to more people. And, not use "sustainability" as a marketing tool to increase prices. I believe it defeats the purpose. Eco-friendly options should be affordable and usable so that they are consumed en masse and, consequently, the recycling of wastes increases. And, our biggest challenge is economies of scale. We can go plastic-free today, but that would increase our costs significantly. So, we are taking gradual steps to scale and be able to afford to go plastic-free without passing on the costs to the customer. As the packing industry evolves and demand increases I am optimistic that the pricing would work out. Meanwhile, we are redesigning our packaging to use smaller sized polymailers and cutting down on thingamajig such as stickers, wrapping paper, etc. as well. BW: The world needs sustainable brands like OOKIOH more than ever – who are some other like-minded brands that inspire you? VA: There are quite a few brands, big and small, that are committed to the cause and doing incredible work. Three brands that inspired me immensely are Patagonia, Eileen Fisher, and Mara Hoffman. Yvon Chouinard and Patagonia have been working on this movement for decades and spent millions of dollars to do it – putting their money where their mouth is. I admire Eileen Fisher's full lifecycle approach to clothing and love Mara's designs and aesthetics. Whitney Hauck from Fashionista introduced me to Maggie Marilyn; This New Zealand brand inspired me to rethink packaging. BW: The OOKIOH line is bright and playful – where does the style inspiration come from? VA: During the initial stages, I realized that while there were stylish and sustainable swimwear brands out there, they were either overpriced, too racy, or too serious. Camilla, Sarah, and I decided to make OOKIOH suits fun, style-forward yet classic, and for all bodies. We were heavily inspired by the glory days of J.Crew and ESPIRIT, United Colors of Benetton ads shot by Olivero Toscani, and 90s supermodels such as Cindy Crawford, Naomi Campbell, and Christy Turlington. BW: And the style names – Bondi, Bora, Amalfi – they’re all named after destinations. How did that come about? VA: Architecture, art, and travel are OOKIOH’s touchpoints. All our styles are based on places the team members have traveled or would like to visit, and we incorporate some elements of the area into the design. For example, the Monaco bottom, one of our bestsellers, is inspired by the French Riviera, and the “extra” bit comes from the glamorous excesses of Monaco. BW: Hailey Bieber, Bella and Gigi Hadid, Gabrielle Union, Behati Prinsloo, and Kendall Jenner have all been caught wearing the brand, what do you think attracted them to OOKIOH? VA: Yes, we have been very fortunate with some of our more famous patrons in spite of their distinct sense of style. Although there is an OOKIOH DNA running across all our styles, I believe, we have figured a way to appeal to various preferences and aesthetics. OOKIOH is fun, sexy, and elegant, without being raunchy, and that appeals to everyone. BW: With you as the exception, the OOKIOH team is all-female, was that something you did on purpose, or was that a natural occurrence? VA: It was a conscious decision, and I believe it has served OOKOH well. I started with the intention to offer women’s swimsuits that were designed from a female gaze, and the entire experience is designed for and by them. It was equally important that we have the right mix of perspectives. Besides the design team, our web developers, social media, photographers, and even packaging personnel are all women. All the positive feedback on the website’s aesthetics, packaging, and imagery validates the decision. BW: What’s next for you and OOKIOH? VA: I have big plans for OOKIOH. I am currently in talks with a couple of investors to raise capital to grow the company. Meanwhile, the team is developing a capsule collection in collaboration with a stylist I much admire. This collection will be made from recycled plastic bottles and recycled Nylon. We are also working on expanding our product portfolio and offering accessories that align with the brand. We are gearing up for our move from a strictly DTC (Direct to Consumer) play to a mix of online and offline. We will soon be available on select locations of two major retail chains. I am excited about this association and the opportunity to grow OOKIOH's retail presence across the country and abroad. Follow OOKIOH on Instagram to keep an eye on what Agarwal has in store for the brand next. 