If you agree with me that the clearing price for oil averages near $60 a barrel for years to come, the underwriting of Saudi Aramco at a premium valuation makes no sense, financially. This is not like the U.S. bringing Comsat public decades ago that roped in every grandmother seeking a growth play for the grandchildren. Based on Aramco’s $1.7 trillion price tag, its dividend paying capacity is akin to AT&T. Call it 60% of earnings. But Aramco is set to distribute some 80% of current earnings. The yield works out to just 4.4%. Exxon Mobil and AT&T, both with a history of blue-chipish regard, yield 4.8% and 5.3% respectively. Saudi honchos are bent on sucking in a new generation of uninformed regional investors. Their underwriting price is too high for informed Western world players and underwriters. Unintended consequences of dissatisfied holders seem likely along with a black mark on Saudi financial acumen. Beware of grandiosity. The case of our obliterated World Trade Center, brainchild of Nelson Rockefeller, was a comparable excess that never should have seen daylight. Our present situation is whether the Big Board should sell at 18 times forward 12-month earnings power. I’m a player, but ready to bang out my ragamuffins at the initial whiff of dead fish. For me, AT&T ain’t a polite, long-term holding, but a surrogate for a BB high-yield debenture. It’s a faceless case of yield-spread comparisons, now and looking ahead. Lest we forget, energy houses over a cycle can do dumb things. Decades ago, Texaco bought Getty at the peak of an energy blow-off. Not to be outdone by Occidental Petroleum thirsting for Anadarko Petroleum and overleveraging itself. Open your window and throw out the rest of your OXY, Carl. I remember, early seventies, when the Saudi king tripled the price of oil to punish us for our support of Israel, but those days are over and gone. Currently, OPEC barely hangs together. There are millions of barrels in shut-in capacity crying for an export home. My comparison model for Aramco is Exxon Mobil whose roots date back to John D. Rockefeller’s roll-up of nascent Pennsylvania energy properties, late 19th century. Standard Oil of New Jersey prevailed as the industry powerhouse, low-cost producer and refiner, capable of driving out of business anyone that got in its way. Was it Teddy Roosevelt who broke them up? Let’s not forget, also, either the chop-up of AT&T, later on when its lucrative long-lines monopoly was divided into half a dozen regional stand-alones. A valuation comparison between Aramco and Exxon Mobil seems legitimate if only for the sake of referencing earnings, dividend enhancement possibilities and comparative price-earnings ratios based on prospective earnings-payout ratios. First, consider Exxon Mobil’s recent checkered history. This year and latest five years showed woeful numbers, both absolutely and comparatively with the S&P 500 Index. Why invest in blue chips, specifically energy plays like Exxon, even Schlumberger which ticked over $90 some five years ago, presently high thirties. Think of General Electric, too, a management-made disaster, but revered over past decades. The market doesn’t rest in Stupidsville forever. The oil sector in boom years stood closer to 20% of the market, now nearer 5%. Even financials, crushed in 2008-2009 down to 5%, now rest over 10%. Aramco’s initial payout ratio approximates 80% of earnings. Exxon’s management, more conservative and realistic, keeps its dividend payout ratio perennially closer to 50%. Exxon ain’t a negative-surprise piece of paper, but still a terrible performer, down 30% from its 12-month high. Blame stinko oil quotes. In energy, my preference is for “darkness before dawn” stocks like Halliburton which has popped 20% from the recent low. It’s P/E on current earnings power isn’t rich and the dividend payout ratio is conservative, even on depressed earnings. Let the white shoes buy Schlumberger. Conceptually, I prefer “excess of pessimism” stocks to widely heralded paper like Saudi Aramco. Halliburton’s 12-month high is $37, but it ticked at $60 two years ago. Today, it’s cheaper than the market on depressed earnings.  Exxon Mobil’s quarterly is not a felicitous document. Year-over-year, upstream earnings were halved, downstream numbers nearly as weak. Operating cash flow, a telltale metric, dropped 20%, but shareholder distributions under 50% remain conservative. You could say Exxon is a bastion of conservatism, financially speaking, but who cares? For Exxon to be a stock you need benchmark crude back at $75 a barrel. Nobody as yet sees this in the cards. OPEC just announced a crude cutback of an additional 500,000 barrels. But, the U.S. has moved from a net importer of one million barrels to an exporter of one million barrels. The world’s awash in oil. Apple, Microsoft, Alphabet and Amazon stand a better chance at hitting a $2 trillion market capitalization next five years while Aramco goes through all the motions of being a thriving business, but stands in place as a richly priced piece of paper. My final number cruncher goes back to the Nifty Fifties of 1972. Establishment investors like Morgan Guaranty Trust embraced growth unequivocally at any price. Jockeys in stocks like Xerox, Polaroid and IBM told clients like Morgan to expect price appreciation of 2%, monthly. Years later, the casualty list rests unexpectedly long: How about Xerox, Polaroid, Eastman Kodak, Sears, Roebuck and Avon Products to start? Not that Aramco fades away, but the Saudi establishment, many of whom attended our premier “B” schools like Harvard and Stamford risk some backlash for their underwriting hubris. Not a confirmed value player, I bought more Halliburton and added to my Alibaba position, neither mutually exclusive. As late as 2001, General Electric with a market capitalization of $415 billion was numero uno in the S&P 500 Index. Exxon Mobil was number three as it was in December, 2014. General Electric in seventh place had lost around $150 billion in market cap since 2001, on its way to oblivion. Apple lead this list five years ago as it does now. Exxon did run neck ‘n’ neck with Microsoft in 2014, but faded badly. Going back as far as 1990, the energy sector weighting in the S&P 500 Index has contracted, while technology staged a comeback from its tech bubble fiasco of 2001. Five years ago, Facebook, Apple and Alphabet were much smaller market-cap properties. Consider this gritty takeaway: Sector concentration is more critical to performance than individual stock picking. The last thing in the world the Street wants to deal with is how secondary stock selection can be. Net, net, if you like technology, buy the Nasdaq 100 Index. Past year’s performance is up some 40%. I haven’t seen this index on anyone’s recommended list.  Sosnoff and / or his managed accounts own: AT&T, Microsoft, Alphabet, Alibaba and Facebook. msosnoff@gmail.com 