German oil and gas company Wintershall Dea, hotly tipped to be one of Europe's largest initial public offerings (IPOs) in 2020, is lining up a "daisy chain" of projects over the next 12 to 18 months and redoubling its focus on natural gas, according to its Chief Executive Officer Mario Mehren. The company, created in May 2019 from the merger of the oil and gas divisions of German chemicals group BASF (67%) and Russian billionaire Mikhail Fridman's LetterOne (33%), should be viewed as a "gas and oil" company rather than the other way around with "robust production growth", Mehren tells Forbes in an exclusive interview. "Our headline production averaged 590,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (boepd) by the end of 2018, and is tipped to hit 640,000 boepd by the end of this year. It is heading to 750,000 boepd by 2023, with a 70% natural gas heavy portfolio. This projection is based on roughly 15 major projects with many of them located in Norway alongside several in Russia, Egypt and Mexico with all them having reached or passed final investment decision (FID) stage." Signs remain encouraging with Wintershall Dea's published third quarter production up 6.1% to 613,000 boepd, even though earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization (EBITDA), and exploration expenses fell more than a quarter to €708 million ($788 million), due to a "significantly weaker" price environment. Prices of both Brent oil and UK NBP natural gas are currently down 20% and 60% on annualized basis, but Mehren says the company's ability to squeeze operating expenditure (OPEX) costs per barrel keeps it on steady footing. Wintershall Dea has also cut its forecast for capital expenditure (capex) in 2019 to ~ €1.6 billion down from ~€1.7 billion previously. "The merger will help with €200 million of cost synergies with the integration well underway. Our desire to maintain our position among the Europe's most per barrel cost optimized energy companies bodes well. We cannot change the price environment or dynamic, but what we are attempting to create is a company for all seasons that's profitable via cash-flow largely independent of where gas and oil prices are." Mehren says the IPO remains on track for a debut in the second half of 2020. The company has appointed Deutsche Bank as the global coordinator for the listing, and is keen to flag its growing portfolio diversity. "In 2019, we entered the Ghasha sour gas concession in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. The first hub development has started with a drilling campaign. We are also involved in early stages of the exploration and production value chain in Brazil. "While bulk of our spending goes into Norway, we split our investments in regions where we are already producing [like Norway and Russia], and balance them with additional forays like Abu Dhabi and Brazil." However, the company's exposure to Libya remains a worry. "We continue to produce onshore and offshore in Libya, but the onshore situation is complicated with difficulties when it comes to attracting contractors and ground personnel. It's a geopolitical reality we have to live with, and such complications are not exclusive to us." By the logic of coping with geopolitical complexities, the Wintershall Dea boss describes the controversial and hotly contested Eastern Mediterranean natural gas plays as "pretty interesting." And while there might be distressed U.S. shale assets up for grabs with viable acreages, Mehren doesn't sound terribly interested. "I'd reference the title of an old James Bond movie – never say never. We are largely a conventional company with some, but not many, unconventional plays. I don't see that dynamic changing over the short- to medium-term." Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline project – opposed by U.S. President Donald Trump - that Wintershall Dea is backing financially as part of a consortium – might be a cause for concern for some, but the company's boss remains steadfast in supporting it. "I think it would be good if European energy strategy is left to Europeans, as we are close to piped Russian and Norwegian gas. As a continent, we also have significant infrastructure in terms of LNG imports which is perfect for consumers from the standpoint of a stable price climate and resource diversity," he adds. Regardless of how this plays out, Winstershall Dea's boss - a hobby runner who has been CEO since 2015 - says natural gas is crucial in the global dash to a low carbon future. "For me, natural gas is the absolute fuel. I hear public discourses that natural gas might be a bridging fuel or pathway to a low carbon economy. We don't need to lose time by debating whether or not natural gas is a bridging fuel as it needs to be deployed incrementally now, simply because any ton of CO2 avoided today is much better than one saved in 10 years. It is beyond doubt that natural gas helps to facilitate that as the world moves on, or attempts to move on, from coal." Wintershall Dea and its peers are also working on technologies to decarbonize gas, by continuing to invest in carbon capture and storage, and other allied technologies alongside hydrogen research, he adds. As an interlude to finding that alamo, Mehren is taking his natural gas first message to equity capital market investors, having tackled their debt capital market counterparts in September via a bond issuance. "We are fully prepared for the cultural change and kind of scrutiny a public-listed company is subjected to compared to a privately-owned one. Our bond issuance was a crucial first step when it came to engaging with debt capital market investors. It is all part of growing up from a private entity to a public one armed with a compelling corporate story. "Our message to potential investors is clear - energy is everywhere; it's something we cannot live without. Natural gas is a key, affordable source of low carbon energy that we are backing as a company. If natural gas gets more and more decarbonized and contributes to lower emission, then there is an eternal future for gas," Mehren concludes.