For most people, Belize conjures images of a tropical paradise. But since the 1930s, almost all of the big players in the industry – Exxon, Shell, Phillips, Chevron – have gone to the tiny Caribbean nation in the elusive search for oil. After drilling fifty wells, all of which were dry holes, the general consensus was there was no oil to found in commercial quantities. At least not until 2005 when Belize Natural Energy (BNE), a small company with only enough money to drill two exploratory wells, struck oil. But the company’s origins go back much farther than that. Having gone to Belize on holiday, Irishwoman Susan Morrice, then a young geologist, was working in the U.S. when she received a phone call in 1983 or ’84 from British oilman Sir Ian Rankin, 4th Baronet. “He said, in a very proper English accent [which she imitates], ‘Is there any oil down here?’ And I said, “Well, Ian, where are you?” He replied, ‘British Honduras, but I think they just changed their name.’” (In fact, the country had been renamed in 1973 prior to independence in 1981.) Morrice did some research and, “like any good geologist,” she says, went back through time to see what the entire region was like plate tectonically and came to the conclusion there must be oil.  When she went to Belize to share her findings with Sir Ian, Morrice says, “I absolutely fell in love with the people. It was the driving force, not only to find the first oil, but actually to do it with and for the people.” Morrice teamed with Belizean business partner, the late Mike Usher, to co-found Belize Natural Energy (BNE) in 1992, although a “meeting of our minds,” as Morrice refers to it, had occurred some years earlier when the two met while working in Denver. Usher wanted to return home to Belize and make a difference in his country and Morrice had the same desire. She felt he was “almost a soulmate, a fellow visionary on the journey.” Like the well-funded major oil companies before them, Morrice and Usher tried for 15 years, first with Belize Natural Resources and then BNE, to find oil, but it wasn’t until the partners recalled the words of famed geologist Wallace Pratt, one of the founders of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG), “Where oil is first found, in the final analysis, is in the minds of men,” that they began to change the way they viewed their pursuit of oil. In 2002, they participated in an Educo seminar, which helped them elucidate the vision they had for Belize, not only to discover oil, Morrice says, “But for the empowerment of the people of Belize. We wanted Belize to be a beacon for other countries as to how to develop not just the oil and gas, but the human natural resource, which is really what Wallace Pratt was all about. “We had delved into and understood the visionary capacity within ourselves. We could not just see the oil, but we could see the people of Belize rejoicing [before it happened]. We were empowered and spoke about the new Belize that was coming forward not only with the bounty from the earth, but the true, unlimited bounty from the natural resource of the people.” Backed by a group of Irish investors, and only enough money to drill two exploratory wells, the partners continued their quest for oil when Usher suddenly became ill and passed away June 24, 2004. Exactly one year later, on June 24, 2005, “In the very first well, against all odds, we hit not only the first oil, the Mike Usher #1, but 40-degree gravity oil so light it goes into the generators without refining,” Morrice says, calling it “a total gift from life.” To date, the company has drilled more than 62 wells (including 21 named after Mike Usher) and produced more than 10 million barrels (bbl) of crude oil. As production sees a natural decline from a high of 5,000 bbl/day to current output below 1,000 bbl/day at a much lower market price, Morrice says, “It has brought out of us a creativity and an innovation that are beyond compare.” Now Chairperson of BNE, Morrice looks toward the country’s post-oil future. Concerned about the reduction in oil flow, the company discovered a waxy substance blocking some of the pores and originally thought of ways to eliminate it. After realizing the substance was petroleum jelly, Morrice says they employed BNE’s motto of “thinking outside the barrel,” and realized it could be used in a host of products. The company is now working on a cosmetic and spa line called Mayan Magic, which also will use high-grade salt crystals from Belizean waters. Morrice says, “We realized, in talking to [people], that the whole industry needs the general public to understand oil and gas are not an enemy. If done correctly, and in balance with nature, the creativity within ourselves is really a magical component of our everyday lives. “We have become not only a case history for the discovery [of oil] and the transformation of a whole country, but we are indeed a beacon for other countries to emulate.” Morrice envisions that happening with the bilateral trade agreement Belize and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) signed in 2015 and BNE’s upcoming participation in Expo 2020 Dubai. “We are given the chance to share this success and replicate this model for the good of mankind. “This isn’t just about oil and gas; it’s about the understanding and release of our light and energy. What we really want to do is take away those limits and old mindsets and come from our genuine, authentic energy and life force. I learned that in 2002 and so did Mike and I’ve been applying it to everything I do. Mike lives on in the understanding and memory of that. This is all about passing it on.” 