Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s aluminum company Rusal was spared from sanctions onslaught this year. His auto company GAZ, however, was not. As 2020 rolls in, some 40,000 GAZ workers are at risk of losing their jobs—not Vladimir Putin or Deripaska—all thanks to sanctions. If Senators Lindsey Graham and Bob Menendez on the Foreign Relations Committee get their way, the sanctions risk in Russia will be worse for everyone in 2020. The Committee passed what Graham called the “sanctions bill from hell” on Wednesday. Washington thinks it’s going after Putin and his government. But it’s also hurting the Russian working class. At GAZ, they’ve had just about enough of it. GAZ is one of Russia’s oldest auto companies. It forged alliances with Ford Motor Company back in the days of Soviet rule. Today, it’s best known for its light commercial vehicles and new electric busses. Within the auto industry, it is Russia’s only real shining star. On December 4, a handful of GAZ employees went to the U.S. Embassy in Vienna, Austria to deliver a letter to Ambassador Trevor Traina about sanctions impact on them. Call it a lobbying effort. They had arrived in Austria in three Gazelle light vans, their most successful product, with #SaveGAZ emblazoned above the windshield. The Embassy mail-drop was part of a two-week road trip that started in the company’s hometown of Nizhny Novgorod and made stops in Poland, Czech Republic and Germany, all in a bid to raise awareness of the company’s struggle with sanctions. “This is not our first letter to the U.S. government,” says Evgeny Morozov, chairman of the GAZ Group Workers’ Council. “Our plants are now at risk, and working people are suffering.” Nizhny is not a city known to most outside of Russia. It’s located on the Volga River, a middle-class city of around 1.2 million. The logo on its flag is a strong buck in mid-stride, the same emblem of GAZ vehicles. But this symbol of strength has been hunted down, now with a few sharp arrows in its sides fired from far across the world in Washington. Last April, Rusal sanctions were removed. In November, the U.S. Treasury Department said it will delay application of sanctions until March 31, 2020. It sounds good because it temporarily allows for GAZ to import electronics equipment, for example, from the European Union. But the threat of sanctions has made it much harder for the factory to import because of the bureaucratic hoops American and European companies have to jump through to do business with GAZ now. Deripaska mentioned that the business could go bankrupt. That would be catastrophic for tens of thousands of workers, many of whom have spent their careers at GAZ, BNE Intellinews reporter Ben Aris wrote in an article dated December 5. Aris was embedded with the ten GAZ Auto employees on their European road trip. Aris quoted directly from the letter given to Ambassador Traina. “The U.S. government says that the sanctions are not directed against ordinary people. But that is not true. Sanctions, if imposed, could lead to severe slumps in production and job cuts. Some 40,000 GAZ group employees could lose their jobs.” GAZ workers wrote a rap song in July, an ode to anti-sanctions, and sang it outside of the U.S. Embassy offices in Moscow on the July 4th holiday. Here it is, people in blue-and-white uniforms introducing the SaveGAZ theme, rapping in factory making a powertrain. (There are English subtitles.) If GAZ was to shed workers because of sanctions impacts, it would impact the city’s economy at a time when Russia is barely growing over 1%. Sanctions 2020: A Sharpened Guillotine Sanctions are hurting Russia. Putin admitted it in 2016 when the economy was in a recession. Things have improved thanks to higher oil prices. Sanctions on individual companies – namely Sberbank, VTB Bank, Gazprom and Rosneft, went into effect in 2015 at a time when oil was falling under $50 a barrel. It is now over $60. American and European sanctions started because of Ukraine. They increased in Washington because of election meddling and Putin’s support of the Syrian government. Sanctions prevent Russia from getting access to cutting edge technology. For GAZ, bans on certain electronics equipment make it much harder to build their EV bus fleet. Some 30% of the components in their vehicles are imported, for example. To add insult to injury, the Senate is looking to punish Russia even more. GAZ workers may end up being a casualty that Washington believes could force the ruling United Russia to do their bidding. What that bidding is exactly is unknown, if not unrealistic. Moscow sees this as an attack on their core businesses. The new sanctions “bill from hell” threatens ownership of Russian sovereign bonds and future LNG projects in Russia. There is also another bill waiting in the Senate, this one by Senator Marco Rubio. It goes along the same lines but can only be implemented if the Director of National Intelligence says Russia meddled in an election. As one sanctions watcher at an investment bank in Moscow who wished to remain anonymous said, “Rubio’s bill is a clear message to the Kremlin that we have a baseball bat on our desk, and if you misbehave we will smack you over the head with it.” None of these sanctions do Russia any good. They are also unlikely to get Putin to step down. Sanctions banning U.S. investors from holding Venezuelan debt failed to get the ruling Socialists United to oust president Nicolas Maduro and hold new elections. For now, GAZ is as good an example as any Russian company that has nothing to do with election meddling, Syria or Ukraine, getting punished for Kremlin politics. Ironically, it was the U.S. and German auto industry that convinced Treasury to remove sanctions on Rusal, but they couldn’t save Deripaska’s auto company because it doesn’t have as much impact on the U.S. market as aluminum business. “The Russian automotive market is stagnating, but that is something we can cope with,” says Morozov. “Our plants are mostly hit by the sanctions.” The most critical moment for them will come after the March 31 deadline. After that, foreign suppliers and partners will be forced to stop selling to GAZ if the sanctions remain. “Our plants will shut down, and our employees will lose their jobs if component deliveries stop,” says Morozov. “The sanctions affect not just 40,000 GAZ employees but also employees of our Russian suppliers, dealers and specialty equipment manufacturers. Around 400,000 people working for the industry depend on GAZ.” Overall, the best-case scenario for Russia is that Graham or Rubio’s sanctions bills are never brought to a floor vote. The Senate Banking Committee won’t like it. That body is heavily lobbied by Wall Street. And Wall Street does not want to be forced out of the Russian government bond market. Good for Putin. Not good for GAZ auto workers.