Last Friday's Iranian-backed attack on a U.S. military facility in Iraq is a direct consequence of the stringent sanctions imposed on Iran, experts say. What's more, it likely won't be the last such event as Iran’s economy spirals into oblivion. "Our sanctions are driving Iran to lash out however they can," General Robert Walsh says in a recent report from New York-based financial firm Academy Securities. He expects more violence as the U.S.-led sanctions bite further into Iran's economy. Friday’s attack, which killed one U.S. contractor in a facility near Baghdad, is just one of an increasing number of such events in the middle east in recent months. For instance, an Iranian-backed attack via Yemen temporarily knocked out a massive amount of oil production in Saudi Arabia. Multiple oil vessels were either attacked or seized by Iran (or forces acting on behalf of the regime) during the year, including one Monday. The attack on the U.S. got met with a swift and severe response. The U.S. launched a counterattack on five targets in Iraq and Syria, believed to be strongholds of Iranian-backed militias. "The U.S. response was expected and disproportional in strength to demonstrate resolve," Gen. Walsh says. In other words, the White House is sending a strong message that violence against the U.S. will get met with a robust response. The worse part is that this low-level war isn't over yet. "Expect these "tit for tat" attacks to continue," Walsh says. The Iranian-backed attacks stem entirely from the U.S.-led sanctions that are crippling Iran's economy, the Academy Securities report says. Indeed, the Iranian economy is cratering, not that you’d know it from what the government says. While the official figures for unemployment and inflation of 11% and 27% respectively are nonsense, there are other more reliable metrics. Widespread protests and riots across that country are just one symptom of a collapsing state. Rapidly rising food prices are squeezing the population, and lack of work leaves many feeling helpless. The other indicator worth looking at is plummeting oil production. The country relies heavily on energy exports. As recently as late 2016, Iran produced 4 million barrels of oil a day. That had plunged to 2.1 million recently, according to data collated by Trading Economics. "U.S. led sanctions against the Tehran regime are suffocating the Iranian economy," says General Spider Marks, also quoted in the Academy Securities report. Unfortunately for the U.S. and the rest of the middle east, the Mullahs aren't going down without a fight. "The Iranian leadership is feeling the heat, big time," says Gen. Marks. "They need to demonstrate that they can still act and exert their influence." Or put another way, they will attack the U.S. and its allies with military force to show they are still kicking. That would likely mean more interruptions of oil production in the Middle East including Iraq and Saudi Arabia, as well as crude transportation in the Persian Gulf. In other words, oil prices could be volatile this year. 