Last month’s Protecting Europe’s Energy Security Act, a big brother law sponsored by Texas Senator Ted Cruz to save the EU from Russian natural gas, is now a totally moot point. The two largest Ukrainian and Russian natural gas firms—Naftogaz and Gazprom—have effectively kissed and made up. The deal between Naftogaz, Ukraine’s state run Gas Transmission System Operator (GTSO) and Gazprom includes a set of agreements that will make Ukraine a Russian gas transit market for the next four years. That gas is flowing to Europe. Telling the Europeans not to buy Russian gas because it feeds the Kremlin’s wealth would be like taking 10% of Ukraine’s government coffers and burning it in a fire pit. All of the sanctions and threats of sanctions against Russian oil and gas interests have stemmed from the deteriorating relationship between Moscow and Kiev, which started with a political uprising in 2014, an uprising embraced wholly by Washington. U.S. and Russia relations deteriorated along with that of the two former Soviet Union partners. Monday’s signing was the result of Naftogaz’s patience and its years’ long negotiations with Gazprom in arbitration courts in Stockholm. The imposition of U.S. sanctions against Nord Stream 2, a Gazprom pipeline connecting northern Russia to Germany via the Baltic Sea, also helped, Naftogaz said in its statement announcing the deal. Gazprom was in need of a deal to hedge against Washington scaring its European partners away from using Nord Stream 2. French energy firm Engie, and U.K.’s Royal Dutch Shell are part of the Nord Stream 2 ownership consortium. Current sanctions, announced last week, target companies building the pipeline. Nord Stream 2 is an estimated two months away from completion. See: Ukraine And Russia, Together Again — Forbes The Naftogaz-Gazprom deal includes the following: An interconnection agreement between GTSO and Gazprom establishing technical procedures and rules for cooperation between the operators of the connecting pipelines in the two countries; a natural gas transit agreement between Naftogaz and Gazprom setting conditions and volumes until 2024; and a settlement agreement between Naftogaz and Gazprom where both parties have agreed to abandon lawsuits dating back ten years. This is as total a truce as one can get. The divorce between Russia and Ukraine all began when then-president Viktor Yanukovych abandoned a trade agreement and further economic proximation to Europe in favor of a subsidized natural gas deal. Many Ukrainians saw this as Kiev being subservient to Moscow and revolted in what was coined the Euromaidan Revolution. Yanukovych fled the capital. A new leader approved by Washington, Arseniy Yatsenyuk, took over temporarily. The International Monetary Fund swept in with its biggest ever aid package. To date, Ukraine is second to Argentina as the the IMF’s biggest bailout program. Yanukovych’s ouster led to massive distrust between Moscow and Kiev. A majority ethnic Russian autonomous region of Ukraine, known as Crimea, voted to secede. Russia was happy to oblige, if not busy lending support for its secession, as Crimea is home to Russia’s only warm-water Navy port. It also meant that if Ukraine wanted to join NATO, it would have to give up Crimea as NATO does not allow new members facing territorial disputes. The annexation of Crimea in March 2014 led to sanctions against individual Russians and later Russian energy companies like Sberbank and VTB Bank. Exxon lost a $720 billion joint venture deal with oil giant Rosneft in the Kara Sea of northern Russian as a result of the Obama-era sanctions. The fact that the fight between the two countries began over natural gas should not be lost on Russia observers. Now that the gas issue seems to be solved, the situation in East Ukraine where pro-Russian forces are demanding autonomy, may also get resolved under new president Volodymyr Zelensky. This would be a win for both sides and could ultimately lift European sanctions on Russia. Brussels, however, does tend to follow Washington on sanctions. Nevertheless, the threat of sanctions against Nord Stream 2 may have crossed the line and gives European leaders, who are lukewarm at best on President Trump, a reason to move against Washington’s Russia policy. See: Sanctions On Nord Stream 2 May Be Half-Hearted — Forbes Moreover, the new agreement between the gas companies fulfill some of the rules in the Minsk Accord. That Accord, mediated by France and Germany, sets up the hurdles Russia and Ukraine need to jump to return to sanctions-free life. The part of the Minsk Accord that the deal provides for includes a $2.9 billion payment by Gazprom to Naftogaz. This is based on a judgement made by Stockholm Arbitration in December 2017 and again in February 2018. Naftogaz said they received the full payment on December 27, 2019, showing Gazprom is following the letter of the deal. Withdrawal from all arbitration proceedings where final decisions have not been rendered and minimal transit volumes of 65 billion cubic meters annually for 2020 and 40 billion annually for 2021-2024 also fulfill part of the Minsk agreement. This deal is important for the Ukrainian economy. Ukraine’s GDP tanked in the Euromaidan years. It was the Venezuela of Europe at the time. Ukraine started to recover two years later and is now growing over 4%. Last year, Ukraine lost an estimated $3 billion in transit revenue, or around 71 billion in the local currency. To put that number into perspective, Ukraine recorded a budget surplus of 30.2 billion hryvnia as of October. Naftogaz taxable revenues amounted to about 14% of the total state budget last year. It is unclear how heavy a hand German leader Angela Merkel and French leader Emmanuel Macron had in this deal. The two met with Vladimir Putin and Zelensky in Paris in early December. Both Merkel and Macron govern countries with billions at stake in Russian natural gas deals. France has been stymied by U.S. sanctions before. Total SA is a big investor in Iranian oil, and sanctions put them under constant threat. French bank BNP Paribas was fined $8.9 billion by a New York judge for violating Iranian sanctions in 2015. Macron has called for an end to the six-year-old new Cold War with Russia. By U.S. standards, he would be under investigation for “Russian collusion.” As would Merkel, whose country will be the landing ground for Nord Stream 2, a pipeline that the U.S. State Department said it wanted to stop in a statement last week. German firms Wintershall and Uniper are both consortium partners in the pipeline. While Macron and Merkel don’t have personal business dealings with the Russian government, their governments have more business interests in Russia than President Trump ever had, or has. Russia is a key competitor to U.S. LNG exports into China and Europe. The U.S. has argued that Europe’s overreliance on Russian natural gas as a foreign fuel source was a risk to its baseload. Europe should diversify its source from other countries, they say. However, countries like Germany are more reliant on local sources like wind and solar for its power grid. Europe is a key portion of U.S. LNG exports. The U.K., France and Spain are three of the top five importers of American liquefied natural gas. According to the most recent U.S. government data, U.S. LNG exports nearly doubled worldwide to 177.8 billion cubic feet in October 2019 over the same period in 2018. Fifty-two ships were sent out in October 2019, most of them from Louisiana and Texas, compared to 28 vessels out in October 2018. 