As the year comes to a close, it’s a fitting time to review recent developments that inform our future expectations for the global oil and gas industry. The past decade once again reminded the world of the immense price volatility of fossil fuels. The boom and bust is driven by the investment cycle affecting supply, and demand caused by the economic growth. The oil price boom of 2011-2014 was followed by a sobering crash of mid-2014-2017. Brent price halved within four months, going down from $115.00 per barrel in September 2014 to $27.67 January 2015. The global demand for fuels has grown since then. Key industry players have learned from past experience and adopted better strategies to cope with the market volatility. Nonetheless, the oil and gas sector remains highly uncertain and sensitive to the global geopolitical trends, and security, from Abqaiq to Venezuela. 2019 was an incredible testament to that. This September, when the ongoing Iranian-Saudi rivalry, including the internationalized civil war in Yemen, had resulted in an attack on the Saudi Aramco’s critical oil production facilities, the world saw the greatest single disruption of global oil supply since the Gulf War of 1991. Nevertheless, the abundance of oil in the markets, less than stellar economic performance, and the sale of some oil futures contracts have prevented panic and allowed the markets to move on with a minimal disruption. Today, the U.S.-led sanctions on Iran and the steady decrease in Venezuelan oil production have contributed to concerns over global energy security, while a global economic slow-down dampened the demand. The global oil supply remains solid, in a price band that favors economic growth. Meanwhile, the market also recalibrated the regional outlook of the major fuels’ suppliers. OECD countries increased their liquids supply by 1.54 million barrels per day from the 2018 average mostly thanks to the United States that recently became a net petroleum exporter. With 90,000 bpd more total oil and liquid fuel products sold than purchased in September, the United States had become a net exporter for the first time since the records started running in 1949. The U.S. Energy and Information Administration predicts the net exports to continue exceeding net imports by an average of at least 80,000 bpd in 2020. The U.S. crude oil production will continue its impressive growth up to 13,2 million bpd, compared to 12,3 million bpd in 2019. Needless to say, the increase in the U.S. production of fossil fuels allowed it to shift the long-standing distribution of the energy market share in Europe. With Iran and, to an extent, Russia being discouraged from exporting hydrocarbons by sanctions, the United States has is aspiring to significantly expand its energy exports, both oil and gas. For European countries, this presents a great opportunity to mitigate their decades-long dependency on undesirable and unstable suppliers, thereby boosting energy security in the region. U.S. liquified natural gas (LNG) has challenged Russia’s dominance in Europe this year. While Moscow looks to launch the Nord Stream 2 in 2020, a pipeline that would double its gas export capacity to Germany to 110 billion cubic meters (bcm) per year, the increasing presence of the U.S. as an alternative supplier may make Russia uncomfortable, and put a downward pressure on prices to the benefit of European consumers. America is now the second largest LNG supplier to Europe after Qatar, and has seen shipments rise by 181% between July 2018 and March 2019. Although U.S. natural gas production is expected to continue to rise, it will grow at a slower rate in the first six months of 2020 in response to lower prices in the third quarter of 2019, averaging 95.1 bcf per day. Notwithstanding the structural changes associated with the U.S. LNG boom, Henry Hub natural gas prices will most likely go down from $2.59 in 2019 to an average of $2.42-2.45 MMBtu in 2020. The fact that at these low prices the gas production industry is still profitable and growing pays tribute to American technological prowess. With some of the stranded gas reaching US markets as pipelines being completed, may further dampen prices. In regard to oil prices, two major recent developments will influence the market trends of 2020. First, the OPEC-plus members have agreed to lower their oil production by additional 500,000 bpd, rounding up to 1.7 million bpd cut from the baseline of October 2018. In view of increasing oil inventories, OPEC-plus is expected to extend the output cut beyond the upcoming March – most — probably till the end of 2020. Second, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) is looking to enact a new bunker-fuel regulation starting January 1 that will require to use low-sulfur fuel oil for maritime shipping. This is done to diminish SOx and CO2 emissions, and will result in redirection of high-sulfur fuel oil into power generation and generate additional short-term demand for ‘compliant’ bunker-fuel. In view of these factors, oil prices should rise, potentially scoring above $65 per barrel for Brent oil in the first half of the next year as the industry responds to the structural demand changes, and then go down to average $61 per barrel for 2020, compared to $64 for 2019. WTI price is expected to reach $55 per barrel. While these forecasts are informed by the global economic and geopolitical situation at this point, there are other important factors that exacerbate the uncertainty and volatility of the fossil fuels markets. In the context of the generally slowing economic growth worldwide, such ongoing political and security factors as the U.S.-China trade tensions, the November 2020 U.S. presidential election, handling of Brexit by the newly elected Tory Cabinet, as well as regional conflicts among and within countries in the Middle East could still bear unanticipated consequences for the oil and gas industry. With Assistance from Akbota Karibayeva