Over the New Year holiday, pro-Iran militiamen surrounded the United States embassy in Baghdad. Ultimately, and thankfully, the American personnel remained unscathed, but it was a further reminder of the political unrest that continues to dominate that country. It also reminds us of the potential disruption that more unrest in Iraq could impact global oil markets. In recent months, Iraq has experienced large-scale protests by citizens who oppose Iranian interference in their country. The country also saw the murder of hundreds of these protestors. Earlier this week, the U.S. struck targets in Iraq and Syria that were linked to Iran-backed militias.  This political unrest brings with it a potential for a real disruption to the global energy markets. In 2018, Iraq produced more oil than all but four other countries. Though reliable and updated numbers are not yet available, its oil production increase in 2019 and it is probably now the fourth largest oil producer in the world. This past summer, it produced 4.88million barrels per day. But just this past week, on December 28 and 29, protestors were able to shut down an oil field that produces 90,000 barrels per day. Iraqi oil has been less than reliable on the global market for some time. Until recently, ISIS controlled some of the country’s oil. In the last 17 years there were also disruptions due to the military engagements caused by the U.S. invasion, conflicts between the Iraqi government and the Kurdish authorities and efforts to rebuild the country’s oil infrastructure after Saddam Hussein’s regime and then war. In the 1990s, international sanctions and the United Nations Oil For Food program limited the sale of Iraqi oil. In the 1980s, Iraq engaged in an eight-year war with Iran that disrupted oil production and exports. However, lately Iraq has been producing and exporting record amounts. It typically overproduces its OPEC quota. If the situation in Iraq deteriorates further in 2020, we could see real disruptions to the oil market that last more than just a couple of days, which could scare the market.  