Oil prices jumped by about 3% early Friday morning in the wake of the U.S. killing of Iranian General Qassem Soleimani in Baghdad. Soleimani was killed by a U.S. air strike as he and his entourage were entering the Baghdad International Airport in an attempt to leave Iraq. The Pentagon issued a statement taking credit for the killing of Soleimani: “At the direction of the President, the U.S. military has taken decisive defensive action to protect U.S. personnel abroad by killing Qasem Soleimani, the head of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps-Quds Force, a U.S.-designated Foreign Terrorist Organization. “General Soleimani was actively developing plans to attack American diplomats and service members in Iraq and throughout the region. General Soleimani and his Quds Force were responsible for the deaths of hundreds of American and coalition service members and the wounding of thousands more. He had orchestrated attacks on coalition bases in Iraq over the last several months – including the attack on December 27th – culminating in the death and wounding of additional American and Iraqi personnel. General Soleimani also approved the attacks on the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad that took place this week. “This strike was aimed at deterring future Iranian attack plans. The United States will continue to take all necessary action to protect our people and our interests wherever they are around the world.” This latest escalation of engagement between the U.S. and Iranian forces in the Middle East region will now test the stability of the global market for crude oil. Over the past year, as Iran has been responsible for a series of aggressive acts against U.S. and Saudi Arabian interests, including the seizure of oil tankers in the Persian Gulf and last September’s missile attacks on several Saudi-owned oil infrastructure sites, crude prices have displayed remarkable stability. In the wake of that September incident, for example, the Brent price initially jumped by about 5% before quickly dropping back to its previous level over the next two trading days. The markets demonstrated a similar pattern in the wake of other acts of Iranian aggression before and after that event. A significant difference between those previous incidents and the series of escalating exchanges between Iran and the U.S. this week was the absence of loss of lives. Over the past five days, lives have been lost on both sides and Soleimani and other Iranian officials also are alleged to have organized the storming of the U.S. embassy by protesters. Soleimani was also the key leader of Iranian aggression throughout the region, the main planner of Iranian proxy attacks and military operations. Much of the recent lack of volatility in crude prices in the wake of these numerous aggressive acts in and around the Persian Gulf has been attributed to the higher level of U.S. energy security. As the shale revolution has taken place in the United States, U.S. reliance on imported oil from the Middle East has dropped dramatically. The level and intensity of U.S. retaliation to Iranian-sponsored attacks has at the same time become more restrained, especially during the Trump Administration. In a statement published early on Friday, Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Khamenei promised, “A vigorous vengeance awaits those whose hands are tainted with his blood.” The scope and nature of that “vigorous vengeance” will likely play a significant role in determining the direction of crude prices in the near future.   