When U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo visits Kyiv, Ukraine this week, the focus will no doubt be on the president’s impeachment and on the circumstances in which the military aid was withheld and eventually released. But just below the surface is a compelling development unto itself — a deal between Russia and Ukraine to exchange prisoners of war and to settle a natural gas dispute. The confluence of the three developments is progress but it won’t come close to resolving existing animosities: Ukraine’s leadership holds a bitter grudge against Russia for its annexation of Crimea. Ordinary Ukrainian citizens, meanwhile, resent the U.S. president’s attempt at strong-arming President Volodymyr Zelensky into investigating Trump’s political rival in exchange for saving Ukrainian lives. With that as context, the potential thawing of frozen relations between Russia and Ukraine may be underway: On December 31, the two countries formally agreed on a contract that will send Russian gas through Ukraine, where it will ultimately head to Europe. Not only does the $7 billion deal extend for at least five years but it also resolves a $2.9 billion claim that Ukraine’s Naftogaz had against Russia’s Gazprom. The hitch, though, is that Russia will be transporting less gas through those older pipelines: 65 billion cubic meters instead of 90 billion cubic meters, although the transit price has been jacked up. Russia is in the midst of building its Nord Stream 2 pipeline that will stretch 750 miles and go under the Baltic Sea and into Germany — a move that allows it to circumvent Ukraine and Eastern Europe. (Russia says the pipeline will be completed in 2020.) That nearly 14-year-old conflict has left Europe in limbo: Russia transports 40% of its natural gas that goes to Europe through Ukraine. And given that Nord Stream 2 is incomplete and that Europe now has other supply options, Russia has been forced to resolve the dispute; several countries are trying to package their natural gas in the form of liquefied natural gas and also sell into Europe. “Gazprom has shown again that it’s a responsible supplier and a reliable partner,” Gazprom Chief Executive Alexei Miller said in an Associated Press story. "Europe knows that we will not fail when it comes to energy security,” President Zelensky adds in a press statement. Dirty Atmosphere The natural gas deal comes at the same time as the prisoner exchange. While Ukraine has the weakest hand to play, it still has international support and Russia has the most to lose. It not only needs to to ingratiate itself in the world community but it, furthermore, can’t afford to lose gas contracts with Europe to the competitors such as the United States, Qatar or Australia. As a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine in March 2014 and its annexation of Crimea, Russia was expelled from the Group of Eight nations, now known as the G-7 and which are considered the globe’s most advanced countries. The war between Russia and Ukraine has taken 13,000 lives and if Russia wants back on the world stage, it must make critical concessions to Ukraine. The prisoner swap and the natural gas pact are two concrete steps: About 200 soldiers will return to their home country of Ukraine. Nevertheless, hundreds more are still captive. There is now a “favorable atmosphere for resolving other bilateral problems,” President Putin said in a statement. “This exchange could have been disrupted at any second of any day. That's why I acted as President of Ukraine. My answer is very simple: I was bringing those alive back. And that's the main thing,” President Zelensky added. “We understand that there are still a lot of our people in the Russian Federation and a lot of those transported from Crimea. This is another track that we are also working on now.” Secretary Pompeo’s upcoming visit to Kyiv comes atop those developments. But a new variable is now in the mix — that the U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine, Bill Taylor, has been just been fired. Taylor testified before the U.S. House that Donald Trump was, in fact, asking Ukraine to investigate former Vice President Joe Biden in exchange for the $400 million in military aide that Congress approved. He also said that Trump tried to revive a defrocked conspiracy theory that Ukraine was behind the 2016 election interference, not Russia. And just yesterday, JustSecurity.org revealed documents showing that the White House was indeed behind the effort to hold up the $400 million. While Zelenksy and his press team say publicly that they have their own problems and do not want to be involved, Ukrainian citizens are quick to speak out. They fully acknowledge that Ukraine has had a long history of corrupt public service — that they had a civil war five years ago that toppled their Russian-backed president. But in 2019, they voted overwhelmingly for Zelensky, who came in as a reformer and who has promised to try to clean it up. Ukraine wants to westernize and to become the kind of Democracy for which the United States has been known. Its war and its natural gas conflict with Russia are holding it back, compounded by the political problems in this country: after revelations of the president’s arm-twisting and his personal lawyer’s surreptitious meetings, Ukrainians are smirking and saying freely that the U.S. may be dirtier than their country has ever been. Ukraine has bandaged its bleeding. Russia is trying in vain to do the same. And it is now an open question just how the U.S. will handle its wounds.