Expect more violence in the middle east following the assassination of Iran’s most prominent and proficient General. The killing is likely to provoke a significant response from the Islamic Republic towards U.S. interests and could mean more interruptions of oil supplies. These warnings come just a day after Thursday’s U.S. airstrike near Baghdad airport killed General Qassem Soleimani, head of the Iranian Quds Force. “This is potentially the most destabilizing event in the region since we invaded Iraq,” states a recent research report from New York-based Academy Securities. “This is a game changer.” The U.S.-led war in Iraq kicked off in early 2003 and quickly led to the ouster of Saddam Hussein and then indirectly to a whole lot of mayhem, including the rise of the Islamic State terror group. Just like the invasion of Iraq brought forth unintended outcomes what happens next will likely do the same. “I believe we have just entered a window of uncertainty at a very high degree and with very high stakes,” says Bijan Kian, a national security professional. Let’s be clear: Soleimani’s death is a huge event, as Academy Securities explains. In other words, he was the mastermind behind a lot of Iran’s shenanigans in the Middle East. And perhaps more important, he leaves a legacy in the form of well-organized local militias in Iraq. The immediate issue now is Iran, which has little option to retaliate, the Academy report states. Expect bad things to happen. “[The Soleimani-built] Shia Mobilization forces will undermine the Iraqi government by targeting U.S. forces, and Iraq’s government won’t be able to control the chaos,” the report states. Likewise, cyberattacks, including those on the U.S. banking system, are likely as the financial world is considered “vulnerable” to interference says Academy Securities. The immediately news has had a predictable impact on financial markets. The dollar has rallied, gold and oil price also has. And stocks are quickly getting marked down. Futures contracts for Brent Crude oil were recently fetching $68.75 a barrel, up 3.8% from the close. Gold futures were changing hands for $1,549 a troy ounce, up 1.4%, according to Bloomberg data. Futures for major U.S. stock indexes were down around 1% in premarket trading, according to Yahoo figures. However, what happens next is anyone’s guess. “I am not so certain that Iran will answer immediately,” Kian says. “While it might answer it is possible that they don’t because they are not a classic operator.” In other words, what would be normal for other countries can’t be relied upon from Iran. In the meantime, nervous investors will wait for signs of a response from Tehran. “Financial markets are now awaiting Iran’s response, which will likely have a wide-reaching impact on all asset classes,” states a recent report from U.K.-based broker OANDA.