Mexico likely finished 2019 as the United States’ top trade partner, something which won’t be known definitively until the Census Bureau releases annual data next month — something it has never done. I say likely because the gap between the nation’s top two trade partners, Mexico and Canada, will be the narrowest in more than a quarter century and perhaps ever, almost certainly below 1%. I mention the narrow gap to allow me to reiterate what I wrote in the second paragraph of a column last month, when I broached this same topic: “But, boy oh boy, it is likely to be quite close.” I predicted then that Canada would overtake Mexico, though Mexico had been No. 1 for most of the year. As I mention, Mexico has never finished as the United States’ top trade partner, so it would be a pretty big deal, if it is shown next month to have happened. Particularly, I would think, to Mexico. Canada had been No. 1 for years and years, decades even, until China supplanted it in 2015. In those pre-2015 years, the difference separating it from the second-ranked trade partner was never close. In fact, as recently as 2008, Canada’s trade was 32.15% greater than the then-second-ranked China’s. In 2005, it had been 42.19% greater than then-No. 2 Mexico’s. In 1998, the last time Japan ranked second, Canada’s trade was 45.53% greater than the No. 2. Canada’s “margin of victory” narrowed, of course, as China’s trade grew. China’s U.S. trade grew rapidly, year after year, after its admission into the World Trade Organization in 2001, largely because of imports. But China did not jump ahead of Canada to No. 1 until 2015, and it did so not because of those rising imports, as some might surmise, but because of falling oil prices and increased U.S. production due to hyraulic fracturing. That one-two punch affected Canada’s trade with the United States greatly, since it was and remains the top U.S. source of foreign oil. In fact, the most trade ever between two countries remains the 2014 total of U.S.-Canada total of $660.22 billion. Though China has been the No. 1 U.S. trade partner since 2015, the gap between it and Canada, which has been No. 2 since then, has never widened beyond 8.42%, the difference in 2017. So what created the opening for Mexico to move into the No. 1 position last year? It was not so much a surge in U.S.-Mexico trade as it was the beating that U.S.-China trade has taken, thanks to the trade war between the world’s two largest economies. China, which narrowly missed eclipsing the U.S.-Canada record total in 2018, has slipped to No. 3 in 2019. I remain confident it will have ended there. Why had I placed my bet on Canada? I did so because traditionally Canada’s trade in the last two months of the year is sufficient to overcome the advantage Mexico had through the first 10 months. But the data for November was released yesterday and Mexico’s advantage over Canada, while still slight on a year-to-date basis, while less than 1%, no longer appears surmountable, if history is any guide. Through the month of November, U.S.-Mexico trade stood at $567.81 billion while Canada’s stood at $562.46 billion. But, boy, oh boy, it’s likely to be close when the annual data is released in four weeks. I expect the gap between the two to have narrowed. But today, at this moment, I am betting on Mexico to have finished as the United States’ top trade partner in 2019, a first.