Long before Saudi Aramco finally made its initial public offering in December, the big question—bigger than the valuation—was: How would Aramco shares be treated by the market? How would the market assess, in real time, an energy company that is disproportionately weighted toward upstream operations in single country, in a volatile region, and with an absolute monarchy that may exert unforeseen control? Would investors treat it like an international oil company (IOC), such as Exxon, Chevron or BP? Or would the market judge the company’s shares based on unprecedented criteria? Aramco trades on Tadawul, the local Saudi exchange, so the market for it is relatively muted. Nevertheless, it has entered the portfolios of international investors through funds, including the indexes MSCI and FTSE which have incorporated Tadawul. To some extent, Aramco’s shares are still not available to a large enough swath of investors and public trading is still too new to determine exactly how the market sees Aramco. After all, the stabilization period does not end until later this week. On the other hand, the recent dustup between the United States and Iran gives a very useful test for how investors see the Saudi oil firm, and it makes a compelling case that Aramco is an entirely new type of oil business in the eyes of the market. Typically, the value of shares of IOC’s rise when the price of oil rises. They make more money when they can sell oil for more money. This is the case even if the cause for the rise in oil prices is a conflict or disaster. For instance, when a hurricane comes barreling into the Gulf of Mexico, there is often fear of damage to offshore drilling platforms. But when the hurricane results in higher oil prices due to production disruptions (or the fear of disruptions), the oil companies see their own stock prices rise. Similarly, as the tensions and then actual conflict between the U.S. and Iran escalated from a killed U.S. contractor to targeted bombings to an assault on an embassy to the elimination of a top Iranian general, the values of shares of bellwether IOC’s like Exxon and BP rose. At the start of trading in New York on New Years Eve, BP was at $37.41. By the start of trading on Monday, January 6, it was $39.68, an increase of more than 6%. Exxon increased from $69.02 to $70.3 (1.9%) in that period. Chevron went up from $119.5 to $121.24 (1.5%) in that period. It makes sense that these shares rose, because oil was becoming more valuable and their daily profits rose. Aramco is different. Tadawul is closed on Fridays, so it was not open right after news broke of the American airstrike that killed Iranian general Qasem Soleimani, but Tadawul is open on Sundays. On Sunday and Monday, even with the price of oil rising, Aramco stock dropped from 35 SAR to 34.05 SAR, before rising to 34.5 SAR before closing. (Remember, Aramco is still within its stabilization period after the IPO, so there may be efforts to keep its price from falling). While the IOCs rose on the news of geopolitical tension and higher oil prices, Aramco’s price fell. This is likely due, in large part, to the fear that Aramco facilities could be targets for Iranian reprisal, just as Aramco facilities were targeted in September and have been targeted by Houthi forces in Yemen for the past couple of years. But these past attacks on Aramco have never really interfered with the company’s ability to make a huge profit. Should Aramco be treated much differently now than an IOC with offshore assets is treated as a hurricane approaches the Gulf of Mexico? Apparently, the market believes so. It will also be important to see how the market deals with the next scandal, political crackdown or human rights issue out of Saudi Arabia. The company is so closely tied to the government and its unique absolute monarchy, that we really don’t know how the equities market will treat a publicly traded Aramco in relation to political events in the kingdom. It seems the market is still trying to determine what criteria to use to price Aramco, an upstream-heavy oil company with all of its reserves in one small location in the middle of a tense region and an interconnection with an absolute monarchy. But this past week has demonstrated that, at least for the time being, it will not price Aramco based on the price of oil.