One year ago I wrote about how Israel is finally emerging as a natural gas player in the Mediterranean, thanks largely to historic Leviathan gas project. In a joint statement on December 31, 2019, the companies operating Leviathan said production would “effectively double the amount of Israeli-produced gas” and potentially make the small country a net energy exporter. Texas-based Noble energy owns a 45% stake in the project, while Israel’s Delek Drilling and Ratio Oil exploration control 40% and 15% respectively. Of Leviathan’s 9.7 billion cubic meters (bcm) per year output, Israel expects to see 1.5 bcm, with the remainder being sold to Egypt (4.7 bcm) and Jordan (3-3.5bcm) in multi-billion dollar export deals. While Israel’s construction of the Leviathan project has been mostly smooth, albeit lengthy, I also suggested that Turkish regional ambitions could and would complicate the situation – particularly with regard to maritime sovereignty. Turkey is now flexing its geopolitical muscle in the region, signing a highly contested maritime border delineation deal with Libya. The agreement is attempting to rewrite the exclusive economic zones of the Mediterranean, and give Turkey a significant say in transnational gas exploration and pipeline construction. The contention stems as a result of Turkey’s invasion of Cyprus in 1974, occupation, and subsequent establishment of a de-facto state on the northern half of the island. Turkish settlers were brought from the mainland in droves. Up until now, the maritime boundary of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus has not been a focal point of Turkish policy in the region. In fact, as the concept of exclusive economic zones was not codified until the early 1980’s, it was never considered as a factor during the initial takeover. This dynamic, however, is beginning to shift now as last week Israel, Greece, and Cyprus have clinched a €6 billion gas pipeline deal as part of the EastMed energy project. The venture aims to bypass Turkey – a self-proclaimed energy hub – and eventually supply up to 10% of Europe’s natural gas. Ankara views the EastMed as an effort to exclude Turkey from the Mediterranean region’s hydrocarbon boom. But Turkish overtures of regional cooperation are suspect. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan aspires to dictate a geostrategic agenda to its neighbors as a part of “neo-Ottoman” foreign policy, with no intention to play nice in the sandbox. The country’s close support of Hamas — a US and EU recognized terrorist network which vows the destruction of the Israel — does not engender feelings of regional camaraderie. In response, Erdogan has called the move part of a geopolitical “game to imprison Turkey within its land boundaries” and has taken active steps to inhibit the project’s completion. As Ankara continues to shift its regional alliances against the interest of NATO, the country is pursuing a foreign policy that aims to maximize its sphere of influence in the Mediterranean space. Turkey’s Regional Actions Just last month, Turkish Naval Forces intercepted an Israeli ship in Cypriot waters and pushed it away as the vessel was conducting a rather routine natural resource exploration mission. It should be noted this was a joint Israeli-Cypriot prospecting team and had the full support of the Cypriot government. The incident took place not long after Turkey signed a deal with Libya’s Government of National Accord (GNA) based in Tripoli which maps out a boundary in the east of the Mediterranean Sea. The Turkish-Libyan memorandum is an ambitious signal to other coastal nations that Ankara wants to have a say in the region’s future gas development. Turkey’s imposition of a demarcation line with Libya in the Mediterranean comes not only to the anger and disappointment of both Egypt and Israel, and Greece and Cyprus – but is part of a larger plan to expand power projection in the region. Just last Monday the Erdogan Administration announced it was sending troops to Libya for a year to prop up the internationally recognized government in Tripoli and “allow a return to the political process.” By cultivating friendly relations with the Government of National Assembly (GNA) in Tripoli, Ankara hopes to “make Libya safe” for the Muslim Brotherhood, gain more leverage in the debate over natural resources over the coming half-decade and attempt to block the EastMed pipeline project. This is the same timeframe wherein the EastMed is theoretically set to be completed and begin operations. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that new relations with Libya “would allow Turkey to legally carry out drilling on Libya's continental shelf with Tripoli's approval...With this new agreement between Turkey and Libya, we can hold joint exploration operations in these exclusive economic zones that we determined. There is no problem.” Under this new agreement, Greek Cyprus, Egypt, Greece and Israel cannot conduct exploration or establish future gas transmission lines without first getting permission from Turkey. Israel argues that the unilateral action does not allow Ankara to prevent it from building a pipeline from the Leviathan field to Cyprus, and onto Crete, Greece, and further into Europe. Even the EU, often a critic of Israel, concurs. Ankara’s Illegal Steps Turkey’s actions in the region have been called inconsistent with international law by Greece, Cyprus, and Israel, and even resulted in Greece recalling its ambassador from Libya. The European Union condemned Turkey’s demarcation memorandum saying: "It infringes upon the sovereign rights of third states, does not comply with the Law of the Sea and cannot produce any legal consequences for third states." Ankara’s latest moves adds to long-running disputes over Turkey’s immigration policy and wider questions regarding the nation’s role in NATO. Greece and Cyprus are the main losers in this game, as Israel could theoretically direct its gas through Turkey, albeit it seems unlikely. Today trade remains strong between the two nations. The fact that Israel started selling gas to Jordan, and is already sending gas to Egypt to convert into Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) for re-export, demonstrates Israel’s rising energy role in region. Russia also has a role to play here, as Israeli gas would compete with Gazprom in Europe. And while Turkey and Russia have seen their relations improve, Ankara and Moscow are on opposing sides regarding Libya, with Russia (and Egypt and the UAE) supporting field-marshal Khalifa Haftar of the Libyan National Army who is fighting the GNA in Tripoli. Turkey now relies on the memorandum with the current government in Libya in order to harass Cyprus, Greece, and Israel, giving it a justification to obstruct the EastMed project. Time will tell if the new Ottomans gambled correctly. With Assistance from David Pasmanik