Russia was never going to like this. But when a mob of angry Iraqis and Iranians try storming a U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, it’s not much different than doing so here at home, as Embassies are the symbol of the country’s home abroad. The death of Iranian general Kassem Soleimani by air strike in an area outside of ​​Baghdad airport on Thursday in retaliation for another attack by the U.S. was met with the usual increase in oil prices, Tehran threats of retaliation, and fears of things spinning out of control by everyone, especially countries who consider Iran an ally. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Friday that the U.S. had embarked on an “illegal power” move and called for dialogue with Iran. The U.S. has been calling for dialogue with Iran for years, even allowing for what many saw as a weak Iran nuclear power deal signed by the Obama Administration. Trump killed the bulk of that deal, reinstated sanctions, hurt the Iranian economy, and now the two sides are back to square one. The quandary culminated in Soleimani’s surprising death yesterday. He was the leader of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ Quds Force, listed as a terrorist group by Washington. Soleimani’s death could drive a wedge between Washington and Baghdad, setting the table for higher oil prices next week. Lavrov seemed most upset that Russia was not notified of the actions before hand. He said that the actions of a UN member state to eliminate officials of another UN member state on the territory of a third sovereign state “flagrantly violate the principles of international law and deserve condemnation.” Washington sees an attack on its Embassy as an attack on its private property, though that attack was provoked by a previous U.S. military action. The Russian Minister said this step by the United States is “fraught with grave consequences for regional peace and stability.” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said Washington was looking to remake the Middle East, a call Moscow would have made in the heady days of the regime change wars that first started in Iraq in 2003 under George W. Bush’s “pre-emptive strike” policy. The head of Russia’s Federation Council on International Affairs, Konstantin Kosachev, told business daily Kommersant today that Tehran will now use this attack to accelerate its nuclear weapons program, a program Tehran was not supposed to have in the first place under the Obama deal. “The last hopes for resolving the problem of the Iranian nuclear program were bombed yesterday,” he wrote on his Facebook page. President Vladimir Putin did not weigh in on the matter in any Russian media reports today. Soleimani reportedly met with Putin in 2015 despite travel sanctions imposed by Obama. On July 29, 2015, then Secretary of State John F. Kerry said that “under the United States’ initiative, Soleimani will never be relieved of any sanctions.” Iran’s Soleimani was a top general and was “actively developing plans to attack American diplomats and service members in Iraq,” the Department of Defense (DoD) said in its statement yesterday. General Soleimani and his Quds Force were responsible for the deaths of hundreds of American soldiers, the DoD said, adding that a recent attack in Baghdad killed or wounded American and Iraqi personnel stationed there. General Soleimani is believed to have approved the attack on the Embassy, which was not carried out by Quds soldiers. Vedomosti business daily sourced an unnamed diplomat who surmised that Iran would retaliate by blocking free shipping through the Strait of Hormuz. The U.S. Energy Information Administration estimates that roughly 35% of all seaborne traded oil, or almost 20% of oil traded worldwide, goes through that Strait. The decision to kill a leading figure from the Islamic Guard was seen by some in Russia as having come through intelligence sources on the ground in Iraq warning of dangers posed by Soleimani, based on Vedomosti’s sources. For Trump, the elimination of Soleimani is generally positive and does not mean war, something he has said he wants to avoid, says Andrei Kortunov, the director of the Russian Council on Foreign Affairs. “The deceased general was a charismatic, famous person who constantly appeared in the media,” Kortunov told Vedomosti. “Trump, of course, does not want a war with Iran. He does not want to fight and if he did so before the presidential election it would be a gift to the Democrats,” he said. “I think Trump has long been looking for an excuse to show that Iran’s actions will not go unpunished forever.” Kortunov thinks Iran could take out its anger on U.S. military in Iraq and Syria. Iran could also increase the pressure on Saudi Arabia, or Israel using the capabilities of the Iranian government banked Hezbollah, a group Washington has had on its designated foreign terrorist list since 1997. Maxim Shepovalenko, a foreign policy analyst at the Center for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies in Moscow predicted Iran will quickly find an equivalent substitute to Soleimani. They did so on Friday. Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, picked Quds Force brigadier general Ismael Qaani as his replacement. Qaani was in charge of the groups financing, including funds for Hezbollah and in Islamic strongholds throughout Africa. When Trump ended the nuclear power deal with Iran, Qaani said that Iran knows how to fight back against America. For Russians, the question is not much different than it is here. What’s next? Was it to demonstrate the decisiveness of the Trump Administration compared to similar Embassy attacks that occurred on Obama’s watch? If so, then this is the last of it until Iran retaliates. How Iran retaliates will determine the Trump team’s reaction. “The situation is very serious, because we are talking about the death of a very senior official of a country with which the United States formally has no war,” Shepovalenko told Vedomosti. A United Nations agreement to lift the arms embargo on Iran in 2020 was part of the Obama-era nuclear power agreement. That portion of the deal could now be dead in the U.N. if Iran is seen by the Security Council as over-reacting, however they may judge that. In August, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warned members of the U.N. Security Council against lifting the embargo, which ends in October. Since the embargo began in 2010, only Belarus, China and Russia have been in the Iranian arms market, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. At least some of those deals are known to have been stopped by Russia due to the U.N. embargo. On New Year’s Eve, a mob of men shouted “Down with the USA” as blowback to a drone attack on militia members in Iraq. They tried to bust into the Embassy. They raised yellow militia flags and taunted the property’s security who were safe behind bullet proof glass partitions in the reception area. The Associated Press reported that the men involved wrote on the Embassy walls: “Closed in the name of the resistance.”