According to some people in the market, China will keep on growing, surpassing the U.S. in 10 years’ time, and its stock market will make the S&P 500 look like chopped liver. Vanguard’s Asia Pacific chief economist, Wang Qian, was quoted saying in China this week that “Shanghai and Shenzhen (stocks) will return between 7.5% and 9.5% a year over the next 10 years, outpacing American markets by a wide margin.” China definitely beat the U.S. in 2019, thanks to the low base effect of a lousy year prior to that, and the positive impact of indexes weighting more to China’s mainland equity market known as the A-shares.  U.S. money is basically mandated to flow into China through indexes like the massive MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Meanwhile, China money is not mandated to come here, and is indeed restricted to do so from Beijing. So there is that. The trade truce looks good for China. Though trade has had no impact on the Chinese stock market of late. Despite tariffs and sanctions on major Chinese tech firms like Huawei, the Chinese equity market was one of the best in the world in 2019. Maybe next week’s trade deal doesn’t get signed? That’d be a negative. The phase one agreement is supposed to be signed in Washington next week. China bears hate it. Anyone neutral or bullish on China loves it. Free marketeers, of course, want all tariffs removed and will see this as a sign of that being possible. Good luck with that. “Hopefully next week’s signing will be a non-event,” says Olivier Marciot,an investment manager and senior vice president in the Cross Asset Solutions team at Unigestion in Geneva. “We think the phase one deal does go through, but the question is what happens next? It’s really difficult to guess. Right now we think China is doing the right thing in propelling its own economy.” It is. But beware of black swan events, analysts from the Economist Intelligence Unit wrote in a report published January 9. They said the market needs to pay attention to China's move towards authoritarianism. That move could hamper relations with the U.S. even more and cause headaches for global firms.  Everyone recalls what it did to the NBA last year over a few tweets in support of the Hong Kong anti-government protesters. NBA didn’t go out of business, but it was all hands on deck for the basketball empire’s crisis management team.  One obvious black swan is unrest in the Middle East, to which China is exposed as the largest importer of crude oil from the region, EIU analysts wrote. However, China is easily served by Russia should the Strait of Hormuz and Red Sea transit routes be sealed due to an escalation of tensions with Iran.  Domestically, recent viral outbreaks have revived memories of the 2003 SARS epidemic. That could get out of hand, a potential black swan, says the EIU.  There is also the risk of bond bailouts and bankruptcies in the small and mid-cap company space that could eventually blow up a brand named corporation, or bank, that the market is familiar with.  At this point, China walking away from the trade deal should surprise no one. The same goes for President Trump threatening tariffs or imposing non-tariff barriers if it becomes clear that China has not returned to the U.S. agricultural commodities market.  AXA Investment Managers economist Aidan Yao warns of downside risks, mostly due to the overly upbeat view that the tariff portion of the trade war is over. “A key downside risk is the housing market,” he says.  China’s all-important housing market had a good 2019, but that could easily give way to a downturn this year. China’s leader, Xi Jinping, is no fan of runaway housing markets. He will clamp down on it if it gets too heated.  A happy housing market and expanding credit are two of the things China investors in the U.S. look for in gauging domestic investor sentiment.  “Our forecast makes no allowance for supply-chain adjustments in response to the trade war, which could have a lasting negative impact on the economy,” says Yao.  Surely a war with Iran creates headwinds for China’s growth, but that would apply to many countries, India included. A symmetrical war with Iran would be the black swan event of the year as the U.S. has not been in a war like that, arguably, since it invaded Iraq to overthrow Saddam Hussein.  One upside surprise is that expectations of a trade truce turn out to be too conservative. More tariffs get removed or their charges reduced. Another potential boon: Trump is not re-elected and Joe Biden, Mike Bloomberg or Hillary Clinton comes out of retirement and either one of them wins. That would be curtains for the trade war and the likely roll back of tariffs with the Democrats preferring to attack China for human rights issues instead. Sanctions would be the order of business on certain companies only. Worth noting, Russia was second to China as the best emerging market in 2019 and their biggest companies are all sanctioned.  “Beijing could choose to stick to its target of doubling GDP by 2020,” adds Yao. If so, look for even more policy easing to bring growth over 6%. The market would love that. Here’s one black swan event the EIU and AXA didn’t mention. It’s not anyone’s base case scenario but be assured that there are a handful of people in high places that are pushing for this. Senator Marco Rubio might be one of them. And that is sanctions on Chinese securities that force indexers like MSCI to remove them from their benchmarks, ultimately banning investors from owning them.  It would be unprecedented. Wall Street would hate it. But that is the biggest black swan event barring a severe war with Iran, or a prolonged SARS-like outbreak that spirals out of control in China. 