Gold just hit a new 52-week high before backing off a bit. Oil just exceeded its September peak before the serious profit taking showed up. The volatility index is showing a series of higher lows even as the S&P 500 hits new highs. That’s a different kind of movement than what traders enjoyed in 2018. Despite the “all is well” proclamation on Twitter about Iran from President Trump, traders in the 3 big markets where fear is often expressed are basically hedging bets even as the stock market indices continue upward. So far. It’s odd to see higher stock market highs without seeing lower lows in the VIX. It’s a sign of concern that these 2 measures seem to be diverging. Fear hasn’t taken hold but it’s showing signs of lurking in the background — judging by these indicators. Let’s look at the charts. Here’s the daily gold price picture: You can see that the precious metal just blasted higher than the early September peak. Sellers came in but we remain up in that 146 price range. Note how the 50-day moving average has now been above the 200-day moving average for almost an entire year. The longer-term moving average is clearly trending upward here. Here’s the daily crude oil price movement: The price of crude on world markets exceeded the September high before sellers finally moved in and price backed off somewhat. It tested the range of the April/May highs. I think the main thing here is that the 200-day moving average has turned upward after bottoming in the August/September months. Here’s how the recent movement of the volatility index shapes up: What’s important here is the movement indicated by the upward trend connecting the late November/December lows with the most recent January lows. It’s odd that the stock market indices have continued upward to newer all-time highs and yet the volatility index has not fallen lower. This is a change from recent behavior — well, from all of last year. Volatility traders don’t want to go along this time — this is called “fear.” Stock have a way of continuing to trend despite the indications of these small warning signs, but it’s clear that something in the background may be changing. Gold and oil trending higher suggests issues for global equities markets. That, plus the odd behavior of the volatility index is something to consider as the new year unfolds. I do not hold positions in these investments. No recommendations are made one way or the other. If you're an investor, you'd want to look much deeper into each of these situations. You can lose money trading or investing in stocks and other instruments. Always do your own independent research, due diligence and seek professional advice from a licensed investment advisor. 