Australia’s bush fire crisis, which has been partly blamed on climate change, will dampen any celebrations associated with a national business achievement, the title of world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas (LNG). Despite natural gas being seen as a half-way house in switch from fossil fuels to renewables such as wind and solar there are plenty of critics who see LNG as an unacceptable power source. LNG Powerhouse A series of new projects around the Australian coast have contributed to global LNG leadership with analysis by the industry consultancy, Energy Quest, calculating that Australia shipped 77.5 million tons of the super-chilled gas in 2019. Middle East oil and gas producer, Qatar, is estimated by Energy Quest to have exported 75 million tons of LNG in 2019 though official data is yet to be published. The U.S. exported 34.3 million tons of LNG in 2019 but is the fastest growing producer of the material which is in strong demand, especially in energy-hungry Asia. Australia’s exports came from projects in Queensland on the east coast, Western Australia and the Northern Territory with more to come as new developments such as the Scarborough and Browse LNG developments move towards formal development commitments. LNG Is Not Pleasing Everyone But, not everyone in Australia will be impressed with the country’s status as a fossil fuel leader with pressure growing to put a cap on coal production and growing uncertainty about whether being biggest in LNG is a laudable achievement if natural gas is playing a role in global warming and climate change which is said to be fanning the bush fires which have so far killed 24 people and destroyed an estimated 1500 homes. Energy Quest said in a statement that Australian LNG exports grew by 11.4% in 2019 compared with 2018 due mainly to expanded production by the Japanese-owned Ichthys project. The chief executive of Energy Quest, Graeme Bethune, said Australia’s 10 LNG projects have a combined capacity of 87.8 million tons, indicating that there is potential to build on the 2019 output of 77.5 million tons even without new projects coming on line. “For example, the Shell-operated Prelude floating LNG project is only expected to reach full capacity in 2020,” Dr Bethune said. The appeal of exporting natural gas as LNG was highlighted in price estimates used by Energy Quest which showed domestic gas selling for $2.80 per gigajoule whereas exported material attracts a price of $8/gj. Dr Bethune said the total value of Australian LNG exports rose by 13% from $30.3 billion in 2018 to $34.3 billion last year. 