China’s top foreign policy officials scolded President Trump’s January 3 hit on Iranian general Kassam Soleimani over the weekend, vowing to do what they could to keep nuclear weapons out of Iran’s hands. Geng Shuang, a spokesman for China’s foreign ministry, told the local press on Monday that Iran was basically “forced” to end its commitment to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action after the death of Soleimani by drone strike outside of a Baghdad airport last week. Geng said that by doing so, however, they would be in violation of their non-proliferation obligations. The South China Morning Post reported Geng saying that, “China will continue to maintain close communication and coordination with all related parties, and will take relentless efforts” to save the nuclear deal and avoid greater conflict in the Gulf. The Iran nuclear deal was signed under then-president Barack Obama in the summer of 2015. But the deal has had its critics ever since, with some saying the U.S. was basically bribing Iran not to enrich uranium for nuclear weaponry. Iran has been fighting a proxy war with the United States and its allies since the fall of the Washington-backed Shah of Iran. Soleimani was a lead soldier in that fight, and has since climbed the ranks to lead the elite Quds Force. He was blamed by Washington for leading a militia attack on the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad on December 31. Brent crude oil prices rose to $70 in intraday trading on Monday morning, but have since fallen below $70. Texas crude is still pricing in the low $60s, up half a percent following a rash of pro-Iran militia attacks against U.S. facilities this weekend. China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi reportedly held telephone conversations on Saturday with the foreign ministers of Iran, Russia and France, reiterating that China would not back U.S. military strikes on Iran. China, France and Russia are permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. That body has a weapons ban on Iran in place since 2010, set to expire in October of this year. "China will continue to uphold an objective and just position,” Wang said, adding that China will help safeguard “peace and security in the (Persian) Gulf.” On Friday, China's top diplomat, Yang Jiechi, spoke with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and urged the U.S. not to start a regional war in the Middle East. China Leaving Iran Oil Market Last week, Russia’s Vedomosti business daily sourced an unnamed diplomat who surmised that Iran would retaliate by blocking free shipping through the Strait of Hormuz. The U.S. Energy Information Administration estimates that roughly 35% of all seaborne traded oil, or almost 20% of oil traded worldwide, goes through that Strait. The Strait curves through the coasts of Oman and Iran and is a key transit route for Saudi Arabian oil into China. China’s imports of Saudi oil have hit a record high of late due to sanctions on Iran and dwindling resources in Venezuela, making that body of water very important to Chinese oil supply. China imported 8.21 million tons of crude oil from Saudi Arabia in November, pushing the total volume for 11 months to a record 76.33 million tons. That’s up 53% from the same period in 2018, based on numbers crunched by Caixin Global, a Chinese business news publisher. Saudi imports go through the troubled Strait of Hormuz and the Red Sea, which borders Yemen, a country the Saudi’s are fighting a proxy war with Iranians. The Tehran financed Houthi militia attacked a Saudi ship passing through the Red Sea in 2018, a troubling sign for oil security and price stability that is so important to China. Most of Saudi’s oil goes through Hormuz, an easier shut off valve for the Iranians. This summer, Soleimani’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps seized a British-flagged oil tanker called Stena Impero. The Iranian military accused the tanker of “violating international regulations.” The move was likely yet another tit-for-tat operation that followed the U.K.’s seizure of an Iranian oil tanker off the coast of Gibraltar. Iran’s oil exports have declined severely due to Trump’s decision to unilaterally reimpose sanctions on the country. China has since turned to the Saudi’s, no longer able to trust Iran as a reliable source due to geopolitics. China’s Saudi purchases beat the 70.3 million tons imported from neighboring Russia, once their top source for crude, and the 47.08 million tons coming from Iraq. China recently abandoned Venezuela’s dying crude oil business in October and again in November due to sanctions threats. Ongoing trade talks with Washington may have had something to do with that as well. Meanwhile, imports of Iranian oil fell by nearly half to 14.36 million tons for the year ending in November. The surge in Saudi imports come at a time when the Saudis were aggressively expanding Aramco’s downstream business through Chinese joint ventures in petroleum refining, storage and sales. Two joint refineries – Hengli Petrochemical and Zhejiang Petrochemical — were granted import quotas of 24.30 million tons of oil in total in 2019, and the volume is expected to keep growing in 2020 as Beijing loosens restrictions governing private companies in the energy sector and as the surprising twist in the Iran crisis should continue to keep China away. China does not need Iran as much as it used to. Beijing does not want escalation of conflict because of the stress it puts on oil tanker transit routes to China. Both the U.S. and Washington have a strategic interest in keeping those lanes drama-free. With the Phase 1 trade deal expected to be signed next week in Washington, investors will be looking for whispers of China and the U.S. agreements over Iran, potentially keeping a lid on military escalations. 