By Mark Finley and Jim Krane A global oil market panic is one of the most destructive economic events imaginable. From hoarding and shortage to inflation and recession, it’s a nightmare scenario. Iran was behind one of the worst oil market panics, when production ceased in 1979 amid the Islamic Revolution. Oil prices tripled and stayed high for years. Iran watchers fear Tehran seeks to trigger another destructive event in the oil market, as retaliation for the US killing of Quds Force commander Major General Qassem Soleimani. After all, President Trump’s fear of high oil prices is all over Twitter. It won’t be easy. The oil market is far different today than it was in 1979: better supplied, more diversified and backed up with strategic stockpiles. It would take a series of major strikes for any hostile actor to cause a sustained spike in prices. Anything short of an attack that results in a large and sustained supply outage from key oil producers is likely to be insufficient to move the price needle anywhere near the $100 range for long. One such possibility is a weeks-long closure of the Strait of Hormuz, the chokepoint that hosts daily flows of a third of the world’s traded oil. But if Iran closed the strait – strewing naval mines or sinking enough ships – the Trump administration would view it as an act of war. US retaliation on the Iranian homeland would be a strong possibility. Iranian policymakers understand this better than anyone. A hallmark of Iranian military doctrine for the past 40 years has been to avoid a direct confrontation with the much stronger US military. Iran is militarily weak. It prefers asymmetric warfare—using unconventional arms and tactics, or proxy forces that give it plausible deniability. Would Trump’s decision to assassinate General Soleimani cause Iran to overturn 40 years of military doctrine, to seek a direct confrontation with the US? Not likely. Instead, Iran will probably ramp up its asymmetric attacks. The Persian Gulf, as military analysts would say, is a “target rich environment.” We could see more Iranian attacks on energy infrastructure in Saudi Arabia, perhaps also the United Arab Emirates – countries producing about 10 million and 3 million barrels per day, respectively. Leaders of both of these monarchies have supported Trump’s “maximum pressure” campaign. Both fought a recent proxy war with Tehran in Yemen. But the Saudis and Emiratis have changed their tune of late. They say they now seek detente with Iran and caution from Washington. The other major producer in the region is Iraq, with output of nearly 5 million barrels per day. But Iraq’s Shia-dominated government is close to Iran’s. If Iran is to continue deepening its influence, perhaps even replacing departing US troops with forces of its own, it needs to treat Iraq with respect. Hence the warning four hours ahead of Tehran’s cruise missile attacks on US bases this week. Even if Iran did decide to attack oil infrastructure in the Gulf, it’s far from certain that oil prices will respond in the way Tehran would prefer. We know this because last summer, Iran pursued a clear pattern of escalating strikes on Saudi and Gulf Arab oil infrastructure and shipping. These culminated with September’s dramatic attacks on Saudi Arabia’s oil system. Devastating drone and cruise missile strikes brought about a loss of over 6 million barrels per day of Saudi oil output. In fact, the simultaneous disabling of the Abqaiq plant and Khurais field proved to be the biggest supply disruption in the history of the world oil market, albeit briefly. Due to the technical excellence of Saudi Aramco technicians and good luck, the damage was quickly repaired. Oil production was restored within 10 days. By then, oil prices had fallen below pre-attack levels. (Similarly, the sharp drop in Iranian production following the reimposition of US sanctions – from about 4 million barrels per day in early 2018 to about 2 million barrels per day currently – failed to boost prices.) The tactical success but strategic failure of the Abqaiq strikes may have been a factor pushing Gen. Soleimani to change his approach and target US bases in Iraq. Still, oil infrastructure remains a tempting target, for a few reasons. First, President Trump’s tweets demonstrate that he is sensitive to rising prices “at the pump.” This sensitivity is heightened in an election year. Second, since oil infrastructure attacks kill few (or no) people, and the targets lie outside the United States, such strikes are less likely to provoke major retaliatory strikes on the Iranian homeland. Third, the target is hard to miss. In 2018, about 21 million barrels per day of crude oil and refined products flowed through the Strait of Hormuz. That’s 20% of total global oil consumption. Preliminary data for 2019 shows that flows fell due to the re-imposition of Iran sanctions and OPEC production cuts, but still averaged a massive 17-18 million b/d—including most of Saudi, Iraqi, and UAE exports, and all of Kuwaiti, Qatari, and Bahraini (and pre-sanctions Iranian) exports. About one-third of the world’s liquefied natural gas cargoes also transit the strait, along with petrochemicals. So it’s hard to imagine an Iranian strategy that doesn’t involve an attempt to inflict pain through the oil market. Beyond the Gulf, there is an entire global oil system that could be a potential target—including the United States, the world’s largest oil producer. Might “sleeper cells” target US infrastructure directly? Attacks on the US homeland would not be taken lightly. Cyberattacks are a near certainty. Iranian cyber capabilities are strong, and we know that oil (and energy more broadly) has been an area of focus. Indeed, an Iranian cyberattack took down 30,000 computers at Saudi Aramco a few years ago. But even that attack did nothing to Saudi oil production. In short, Iran finds itself in a tough position, vis a vis global oil markets. The market is well-supplied, which means that fundamentally damaging supply – the only real way to ignite sustained high prices – is no easy matter. When there’s so much oil sloshing around, folks are not inclined to panic. * * * Mark Finley is the Fellow in Energy and Global Oil at Rice University’s Baker Institute. He has 35 years of private- and public-sector experience analyzing energy markets and energy security. Jim Krane is the Wallace S. Wilson Fellow for Energy Studies at the Baker Institute, where his research addresses the geopolitical aspects of energy, with a focus on the Middle East and the OPEC states and their political and economic strategies.