What World War III? Pro tip: Never take investing advice from social media or anyone from Hollywood. Alas, it appears the world is not heading for Armageddon. President Trump gave U.S. markets a breather late last night after Asian markets fell over 2% on news that the Iranian military fired rockets at U.S. bases in Baghdad. When it appeared that no one was hurt in the strike, Trump sent out this tweet: Iran could have clearly harmed U.S. personnel, but may (or may not) have chosen not to do so in retaliation for the killing of General Kassam Soleimani last week. And so it was back to risk-on, albeit at much lower volume. The SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) exchange traded fund was up 0.3% within the first few minutes of trading. Gold and oil prices both fell this morning. Central banks, fiscal stimulus here and abroad and the unlikelihood of a prolonged war with Iran have investors bullish despite a weak start to 2020. The last two days revealed another day of risk-on in most markets around the world. The MSCI Mexico was up. MSCI India and even MSCI China was up a tad after markets settled lower in Shanghai and Shenzhen yesterday. Geopolitics is one headwind that’s yet to blow anybody over. So is the Dow going to hit 30,000 points by the end of the third quarter or not, especially considering rumors of war cannot even deter buyers these days. “I think that’s unlikely, but I’m very happy to be wrong on that one,” Bob Doll, chief equity strategist for Nuveen, told me in a Q&A with the financial press yesterday. “That’d be FOMA and TINA all rolled into one,” he said about the “fear of missing out” and the mantra of “there is no alternative” to U.S. stocks. The obvious negatives include high valuation for stocks, especially growth stocks here at home; corporate profits peaking along with a high corporate debt load; the trade truce getting scrapped on a President Trump whim; election volatility and the election of a Democrat threatening to arrest oil executives and increase the C-Corp rate; and last but not least, significant geopolitical uncertainty surrounding Iran. Despite all of that background noise, 2020 is fairly certain to be a risk-on year. “It seems the status quo of the fourth quarter of 2019—the inclination to chase risk—is quickly forcing its way back onto the scene as the palpability of expected yet unknown ramifications of U.S.-Iranian tensions fade,” says Bethel Loh, a macro strategist for ThinkMarkets, based in Melbourne. The nature and severity of Iran’s retaliation for the death of Soleimani isn't concretely known. Was yesterday’s strike on U.S. airbases the last of it? Will the U.S. strike back, at the very least hitting the equipment where those rockets were launched? Nobody knows. There were a few explosions in Iraq and in Africa before last night’s air strike, but for Iranian actions, that’s almost common fare. Investors are likely to be far more reactive to immediate, more explosive developments rather than worrying about longer-term stresses that may not transpire. Judging by Wednesday’s tepid reaction — with no meaningful sell off on Wall Street — fund managers are taking Trump at his word, that he doesn’t want a war with Iran. Tuesday’s risk-off mode faded yesterday with crude oil prices falling and gold failing to consolidate Monday’s highs. And today shows more of the same, even after last night’s drama in Iraq. China’s stock market settled lower mainly because the Asian markets were the first to feel the brunt of the attack last night. Some China ETFs were showing signs of life this morning, regardless. China lambasted Washington for its hit on Soleimani in Baghdad this week, but both Washington and Beijing have a strategic interest in keeping the Strait of Hormuz safe for the passage of oil tankers. The Strait, off the coast of Iran, is a major transit route for Saudi oil into China. The 2020 Outlook, Minus Iran Global investors expect this year to be another good one for China and emerging markets, which have underperformed the U.S. thanks to higher interest rates in countries like Brazil. Now interest rates are coming down, and economies are turning the corner in pockets throughout the world. Brazil is a case in point there. “Emerging markets may benefit from trade de-escalation, potential dollar depreciation and a light political calendar relative to the U.S.,” says Brendan Ahern, CIO for KraneShares in New York. The U.S. might not be the standout performer this year, but most people with money at work in the markets, whether it’s $1,000 or $1 million, should see their money grow. It’s not going to be blockbuster growth, though, Bob Doll warns. Doll predicts U.S. earnings will fall short of expectations in 2020, partially due to rising wage rates. “We think earnings will be okay,” he says, estimating about a 5% to 6% earnings per share growth in the S&P this year. Consensus is 9%. Last year he got 7 out of his 10 predictions right. One error was in stock market growth. He expected rate hikes. The Fed surprised nearly everyone in 2019. This year, stocks, bonds and cash could return less than 5% for the fourth time in 25 years, according to Doll’s forecast. In the U.S., the price-to-earnings ratio for the S&P 500 is seen averaging out at 18.5x, with the index hitting 3500 at some point this year. That’s about 270 points away from where the index is now. The better opportunities are abroad, Doll thinks. “The U.S. market will be a lot of show, but not enough dough,” he says. “Still, the probability of a recession is close to zero. There’s just no signs of it. The economy is okay, but not ebullient.” If the skirmish with Iran continues and escalates, that would be a challenge for global growth and that could cause the Fed to lean towards lowering interest rates. 