Contingent Geopolitical Risk between the U.S. and Iran has stabilized at its highest level since 2017 after this month’s tit-for-tat exchange of hostilities in Iraq. This reflects both the unprecedented nature of those hostilities (i.e. the targeted killing of Iran’s military chief; Iran’s firing of ballistic missiles at U.S. Army bases) and the reality that tensions remain very high, even by recent standards. But it also reflects the low likelihood of an escalating war between the U.S. and Iran, returning the adversaries to the previous proxy war equilibrium — albeit one at a higher level of risk. It also reinforces our data-driven speculation from last week that (i) future anti-U.S. actions by Iran would not be focused on Iraq, but rather the wider region; and (ii) that the increase in Iranian Geopolitical Risk would/will not have a sustained impact on oil markets. Re: the latter, note in our Market Spotlight below that while our Iran Geopolitical Risk indicator correlates positively (if somewhat weakly, at r = +0.31) with the daily Brent Crude price since 1 Jan 2017, the 60-day running correlation remains negative since Nov. 2019. This dynamic is a useful corollary to recent market commentary regarding the lack of oil price impact from the recent U.S.-Iran conflict. President Nicolas Maduro survived a political challenge in early 2019 as domestic unrest, a refugee exodus, and external pressure raised expectations of his autocratic regime's approaching demise. But Government Instability Risk, which had risen in early 2019, remained well below multiple peaks since 2016, informing our January 2019 prediction that Maduro would survive the year just as his demise seemed at hand. A subsequent spike in Government Instability Risk in late 2019 reached new peaks, driven by economic sanctions (including a full U.S. embargo) and political violence, which also pushed Social Instability Risk and Policy Risk higher. But the regime endured these shocks, as our data forecast. In fact, the dotted line reflects that forecast of lower Government Instability Risk, even at its late-2019 peak. That risk is now projected to fall to trend in early 2020, even as the ostensible opposition leader Juan Guaido continues to challenge the autocratic regime. Next, an as yet unscheduled parliamentary election due in 2020 is unlikely to cause much more concern for Maduro’s regime than did the challenges he faced in 2019. Per the figure below, our Investment/Trade Policy Risk indicator forecasts an improvement in U.S. trade relations beginning next week and with Risk trending downwards through at least 1H/2020. The decline in Risk is driven by two main factors: (1) the anticipated signing of the U.S.-China “Phase I” Trade Deal on 15 January; and (2) the USMCA’s likely smooth passage through a series of Senate committees. While the latter may be momentarily derailed by impeachment hearings in the Senate, our data suggests limited barriers to passage aside from potential impeachment-related delays. Our forecast surrounding the impact of the Phase I trade deal remains less bullish. Per the second figure below, we currently forecast Chinese Investment/Trade Policy Risk to remain elevated through at least 1H/2020; trend slightly upwards following the Deal’s anticipated signing date; and ultimately remain well above levels observed when the trade dispute began in early 2018 (though also below peaks reached in mid-2018). We continue to interpret these trends — as we have since talk of the deal first emerged — as suggesting that the deal is likely to offer concrete tariff relief while nevertheless failing to meaningfully address the broad range of technology and national security-related issues at the origins of the dispute, resulting in strained bilateral relations for the foreseeable future, and as currently forecast by our U.S.-China Contingent International Relations Risk indicator. Insight to follow on the app. As mentioned above, since 1 Jan. 2017 our Iranian Geopolitical Risk indicator correlates positively (if somewhat weakly, at r = +.31) with the daily Brent Crude price. Nonetheless — and despite the recent spike in U.S.-Iran tensions — the 60-day running correlation (graph below) has been increasingly negative since Nov. 2019, indicating a weakening relationship between Iran’s geopolitical conflicts and the price of oil. This relationship provides a useful corollary to recent market commentary regarding the lack of oil price impact from this month’s U.S.-Iran flare-up, an outcome we anticipated last week. Indeed, while prices did jump in the aftermath of the past week’s major U.S.-Iran events, the rally was relatively muted compared to recent geopolitical flare-ups and retraced quickly after signals from both sides of de-escalation. The figure below provides our 50-country forecast of top-line Political Risk for the month ahead (today through 7 February). Red (green) bubbles indicate increasing (decreasing risk). Full trend lines available on the app. Custom insights available for clients. Forward-looking updates from GeoQuant's high-frequency political risk intelligence platform. *Originally distributed 1.10.20