(Updated: 11:35 a.m. EST, Jan. 3 2020) Topline: After Iranian military leader Qassem Soleimani was killed by a U.S. air strike Thursday night at Baghdad’s airport, the country’s president vowed retaliation⁠—which was followed by calls from across the world and from Iraq’s president⁠—for restraint and de-escalation, to which the U.S. reiterated its commitment. Crucial quote: In an early Friday tweet, Pompeo wrote that President Trump’s decision to order Soleimani’s killing was “in response to imminent threats on American lives,” and that the U.S. is committed to de-escalation. Trump followed a couple of hours later with a Twitter thread about Soleimani, writing “He should have been taken out many years ago!” What to watch for: If Iran takes the retaliation vowed in President Hassan Rouhani’s statement. Both the U.S. and the Netherlands are telling citizens to leave Iraq. The U.S. embassy in Iraq has suspended consular operations, and citizens should not approach the compound. Key background: Soleimani was a powerful leader in Iran and had become a celebrity for his role leading the elite Quds Force. Soleimani took command of the organization around 1988, which often managed Iran’s clandestine operations abroad, and built a network of allies and proxy forces in Iraq, Syria, Lebanon and Yemen. In April, the U.S. designated the Quds Force as as foreign terrorist organization. The Trump administration and Tehran have been locked in a war of words since Trump scrapped an Obama-era deal to limit Iran’s nuclear program and reimposed sanctions. The U.S. blamed Iran for explosions that rocked two oil tankers in the Strait of Hormuz in June, mysterious strikes on a key Saudi Aramco oil facility in September, and the death of American contractor in a rocket attack on a Kirkuk military base. After an attack on the U.S. embassy in Baghdad on Tuesday, Trump said Iran was responsible, and the Pentagon said Soleimani approved the embassy attack in a statement released after his killing.