Looks like an ongoing geopolitical drama gripping the global crude oil market is over! Or at least, it appears to be for now much to the dismay of an army of speculators. If you happen to be on Twitter, outlandish trends ranging from Gulf War III to World War III, closure of the Strait of Hormuz to possible Iranian attacks on marine convoys are all the rage. That's after Iran's promised reprisal, for the U.S. airstrike that killed the Islamic Republic's Quds Force General Qasem Soleimani, came and went without causing any human or strategic harm. In the small hours of Wednesday (January 8) morning, Tehran fired over a dozen ballistic missiles targeting "35 sites" peppered around two airbases in Iraq and Iraqi Kurdistan housing U.S. forces. Tensions rose and crude futures jumped by over 4% with Brent and WTI front-month contracts touching $71 and $65 per barrel respectively. However, as details emerged the rally appeared to be pretty phoney. In the hours after the attack, the Pentagon confirmed there were no U.S. or Iraqi casualties. Furthermore, a quarter of the ballistic missiles that Iran fired failed to explode or reach their intended targets while the rest caused minimal infrastructural damage. In response, U.S. President Donald Trump sent an "All is well" tweet rather than a vitriolic tirade and said he'd address the nation in the morning. Iran sent out the usual belligerent tweets and notices of having served revenge and slaps on the Americans, and flooded its heavily controlled domestic TV channels with unverified reports of "heavy" U.S. casualties. And in the cold light of a Washington DC morning, Trump emerged hours later to rumors that Iran was "de-escalating the situation" and an "early warning was delivered" prior to the attack. Trump said that Iran was "standing down", confirmed no U.S. casualties, called on the Europeans to pull out of the Iranian Nuclear Deal, announced additional sanctions on Tehran, and said military options remained on the table, even if he would not be responding imminently. End result – an over 4% uptick in oil futures in Asian trading turned to a 5% dip in U.S. trading. At the time of writing, 19:02 GMT, Brent was trading at $65.33 per barrel, down $2.94 or 4.31%, and WTI was down 5.04% or $3.16 to $59.54 per barrel. As predicted, all it turned out to be was a jumped up skirmish hyped by Iranian hardliners. While this might be the end of direct action on both sides, Tehran's proxies would continue to discomfort U.S. forces in the Middle East as they have been for decades. It was always unlikely that the tension would lead to all out war, or the closure of the Strait of Hormuz by the Iranians. A war against a vastly superior U.S. arsenal would result in the end of the Ayatollahs' stranglehold on Iran, and a closure of the Strait would neither be tolerated politically by China, which sees over 40% of its crude exports pass through it, nor be militarily palatable to the U.S. In the end, Trump delivered his blow following an escalation of violence in Iraq by Iranian proxies by taking out Tehran's clandestine operations mastermind, and Iran, in turn, carried out a missile attack more for its domestic audience than a direct reprisal against Washington. Both can, and are, claiming victory. As with the Abqaiq attacks on Saudi Aramco's facilities in September, the latest skirmish went away nearly as soon as it surfaced with market fundamentals coming back to bring about an oil price correction triggered by overtly optimistic long calls courtesy money managers and other speculators. Such instances will continue, as I fully expect Middle East skirmishes between Iran, its proxies and the U.S. to continue but in a market that's adequately supplied, especially in terms of light sweet crude. According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), non-OPEC countries will alone add another 2.3 million bpd to their supply in 2020 including additional barrels from Brazil, Canada, Guyana, Norway and of course the U.S., while global oil demand growth is expected to be a mediocre 1.2 million bpd if not less. Trump, without spelling this out for the market, made another 'bigly' quip for Iran and the oil market's benefit, noting: "We are the number one producer of oil and gas. We are independent and we do not need Middle Eastern oil." While that is not necessarily true because the U.S. continues to import multiple cargoes of heavy sour crude; and will continue to in an election year where Trump needs to keep a lid on prices at the pump; the country is indeed on track for a 2020 petroleum trade surplus and an output of 13.1 million bpd. So where from here? Well, when the next geopolitical incident arrives, accompanied by a predictably short-lived rally, keep calm and carry on. Short of an unthinkable war on the upside or a global recession on the downside, lasting breaches of Brent and WTI from their current floor and ceiling ranges of $65-75 and $55-65 respectively appear remote. The above commentary is meant to stimulate discussion based on the author’s opinion and analysis. It is not solicitation, recommendation or investment advice to trade oil and gas futures, options or products. Oil and gas markets can be highly volatile and opinions in the sector may change instantaneously and without notice.