Topline: European leaders, including British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, have appealed to both Iran and the U.S. to de-escalate mounting tensions in a joint statement released two days after Iranian military general Qassem Soleimani was killed in a drone strike ordered by President Donald Trump. What to watch for: NATO ambassadors will convene in Brussels on Monday for a last-minute meeting on the crisis. Key background: Johnson and Trump spoke over the weekend, with the White House saying they had “reaffirmed the close alliance” between the U.S. and the U.K. Speaking for the first time on Soleimani's death, Johnson on Sunday said the Iranian general had been “responsible for a pattern of disruptive, destabilizing behaviour in the region.” Soleimani, a powerful leader in Iran who played an instrumental role in strengthening the Quds Force, was killed at Baghdad airport on Friday morning in a strike ordered by the U.S. As part of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard, the force was designated a foreign terrorist organization by the U.S. last year. Tensions between Tehran and Washington have ratcheted dramatically in recent months, culminating in Trump ramping up sanctions on Tehran last September after Washington blamed Iran for two crippling attacks on Saudi Aramco oil plants. Last Tuesday, Trump sent more troops to the Middle East after he blamed Iran for an Iraqi attack on the U.S. embassy in Baghdad, during which citizens chanted “death to America.” The attack followed a U.S. airstrike that killed members of an Iranian-backed militia last Sunday. Tangent: Oil prices continued to escalate on Monday amid worsening tensions. Following a 3% rise directly after the strike, Brent crude rose 2.41% to $70.25 a barrel on Monday. The increase followed a series of Trump threats over the weekend to “fully strike back” if Iran strikes “any U.S person or target.” Trump: Iran Will Be ‘Hit Very Fast And Very Hard’ If It Strikes American Targets (Lisette Voytko) Further reading: Over the weekend, Iran moved to end its commitment to an Obama-era nuclear deal, following a vow to retaliate following Soleimani’s killing. Iran Ends Commitment to Nuclear Deal After Soleimani Killing (Rachel Sandler) 