Personally, I do not like mass transit buses but not for any rational reason. When I was a schoolboy, I sometimes had to catch a city bus to go to the Boys’ Club, and they ran infrequently in mid-afternoon and relatively unpredictably. This meant I usually had to wait for a lengthy and indeterminate time for each bus, which isn’t the sort of thing a neurotic schoolboy enjoys. (By contrast, I love subways.) But despite that, I wholeheartedly support the idea of making mass transit buses free, as is now being tried in a few cities like Lawrence, Massachusetts. It makes sense on many different grounds, including traffic management, environmental improvement, and social welfare. No doubt, some of the benefits would go to the middle class, but let’s face it, the great majority of riders on mass transit buses are low income and lower-middle class citizens (and students). Subway riders probably tilt more towards middle and upper middle class riders; in cities like Boston, New York and Washington the subways are used heavily by commuters of all classes, but 69% of bus riders have an annual income under $50,000, while only 42% of subway riders do according to the American Public Transportation Association. Thus, providing this type of broad financial support will actually see most benefits go to the poor and working poor, unlike most other subsides. One of the biggest drawbacks to reducing vehicle emissions is the extra space needed for alternative fuels, whether batteries, compressed natural gas, propane or hydrogen. But this is not a problem for buses: compressed natural gas has been used in many areas for years. Also, the reduced range from which some alternative fuels suffer is obviated by urban buses with a limited, and known, route that begins and ends at a specific terminal. Ture, taxing gasoline to pay for this program is unpopular, because a) all taxes are unpopular and b) gasoline taxes are particularly unpopular in the United States. And I normally oppose taxes that are intended to pay for specific expenses rather than simply go into a government’s budget. But in this case, it would be effectively the same as putting the money towards the Highway Trust Fund: the money is going to improve traffic, albeit it indirectly. The reality is that this amount of tax would not be egregious. The figure below shows the actual retail gasoline price in Massachusetts and the level if an extra 5 cents/gallon tax had been imposed. Prices regularly rise and fall by $0.50/gallon and more, so that the proposed tax would not be a serious hardship, especially when you consider that the graphs starts after the 2015 oil price collapse; prior to that, prices had been much higher, $3.50 and above for years. American philosopher Melvyn Kaminsky once noted “Poverty sucks,” which sums up a lot of problems faced by the poor, a big part of which is being located in impoverished areas, where access to jobs, health care, groceries, etc., is limited or, in economic terms, more expensive than for people who are better off. Breaking the cycle of poverty is hard to a large degree because nearly every aspect of life is harder and/or more expensive for the poor. Free buses wouldn’t solve every problem obviously but would reduce some costs faced by the poor and thus ease their lives. Doing so could be considered an act of charity, but alternatively, an investment in making the working poor more productive and thus more capable of contributing more to the economy and the wellbeing of the U.S. as a whole. 