Wall Street has snubbed its collective nose at Iran. No matter how many times political pundits and elected officials in Washington bemoan the start of World War III, the stock market is unafraid. The big guns aren’t the U.S. military, in the market’s point of view. It’s Jerome Powell and the Federal Reserve. Iran has a six-shooter. The Fed has a howitzer. “So long as the Fed is pumping nearly a trillion dollars into the market and wants to build up bank reserves, that money is going to find its way into the highest and best return. And that’s in the stock market,” says David Waddell, CEO and chief investment strategist for Waddell & Associates, a Tennessee-based investment advisor. “QE is good for the stock market. The Bank of Japan is doing it. The Europeans are doing it. Whenever there is a liquidity boost, it boosts equities and that’s the fundamental backdrop to what’s happening right now, even when Iran is making headlines.” U.S.-Iran tensions receded as fast as they started. Two weeks ago, Islamic Revolutionary Guard high commander Qassem Soleimani was shot down by a drone outside of a Baghdad airport. The U.S. called him a terrorist leader, as the Islamic Revolutionary Guard is not only on the designated terrorist list, but is also a major sponsor of other paramilitary groups hostile to the U.S. and its allies abroad. Asian markets sank on the news. Then President Trump tweeted out “All is well,” and markets relaxed. Later, the president spoke in front of the press about the death of Soleimani, denounced war, praised the Iranian people, and markets have been up since. Following what appears to be the accidental downing of a Ukrainian Airlines passenger jet, tens of thousands of Iranians took to the streets in anger as dozens of locals were on board. The U.S. has thrown its moral support behind the protesters, with Trump tweeting in Farsi or Persian last week in direct communication with Iranians. It’s Tehran’s Hong Kong moment. Domestic equity markets are rallying on the geopolitical risk reprieve, with the S&P 500, Dow Jones Industrial Average and NASDAQ Composite all hitting new record highs. Dow 30,000 is now 1,200 points away. Geopolitical headlines can often contribute to short-term volatility in markets, but ultimately it’s the underlying fundamental trends that determine the direction of securities over the long term, say Glenmede investment strategists led by CIO Jason Pride in a note on Monday. “Investors can get burned trying to opportunistically trade on this types of risk, which can be very difficult due to the inherent unpredictability of geopolitics,” he says about trying to time the market. BlackRock told its investors yesterday that they still should expect heightened tensions despite the avoidance of a major confrontation between the U.S. and Iran. Investors may want to buy the dips, but the dips could easily be deeper if tensions flare. The oil markets reaction to Gulf tensions has been muted thanks the decreasing heft of the Middle East in determining global oil prices. Non-OPEC players—Russia and the U.S.—now have more supply. The U.S. is now a net oil exporter. The war for oil story is over. Still, in the worst-case scenario, if there is an escalation that causes blockages to the main Gulf oil shipping in the Strait of Hormuz off the coast of Iran, or the Red Sea off the coast of Yemen, where Iranian-backed militias have been fighting the Saudis, the market’s temperament would change quickly, BlackRock warned. Fed Dependent? The Fed has injected liquidity of around $400 billion into the financial system and reversed half the reduction in its balance sheet, which now stands at $4.1 trillion, not far from the peak of $4.5 trillion. Last week, though, the Fed actually pared back a modest amount of the liquidity it has provided after making sure there was enough liquidity to prevent a year-end funding squeeze. Despite all of this, equity markets are still in an uptrend – largely courtesy of a belief that the Fed will be the backstop if things go south. “Over the last 12-18 months, there have been many geopolitical risks that have been absorbed by equity markets, and such risk has had short-lived effects on market volatility,” says Neil MacKinnon, an economist for VTB Capital in London. “There are clearly plenty of potential flashpoints, and of course there is the presidential election coming up—though investors think that Trump will win a second term,” he says, adding that share buybacks are also contributing to the QE asset bubble here. As a result of that asset bubble, many investors are looking outside of the U.S. at the start of 2020 with emerging markets expected to surpass U.S. earnings growth this year. Meanwhile, Iran’s government has bigger things to worry about than Trump. That’s a potential tailwind. Iran was a Western-leaning economy in the 1970s, and then the Mullahs came in and have been battling against the U.S., and indeed some of its own people, ever since. It started wars with Iraq. They spend millions funding deadly militias, money that would be better spent at home. Their people are mostly young and aspirational. This weekend’s protests in the capital city suggest there’s risk that a domestic crisis could spin out of control now that sanctions are tighter. “Their economy contracted in 2018, 2019, and the World Bank had them at zero growth for this year until the sanctions got tougher,” says Waddell. “Iran’s government has two groups threatening their power now: the U.S. and a population upset about sanctions and the downing of that airline that killed many Iranians. It’s an economic siege. Because of that, I doubt Iran would willing to escalate tensions with the U.S.,” says Waddell. “If they do, and I’m not Iran expert, the market will sell off and then go up another 20% after it recovers.” 