A year ago, there was near unanimity among pundits, I mean experts, that a recession was quite likely for 2019. The economic expansion was getting long in the tooth, labor markets were very tight, and for a period, the yield curve for bonds was inverted, a near-perfect predictor of looming recession. Added to that, the chaotic nature of U.S. politics and uncertainty created by on-again, off-again tariff policies seemed to suggest expectations of a recession were well-based.  Instead, consumer spending remained strong, the stock market rose sharply, so that the experts sheepishly admitted they got it wrong. (I also made all the above arguments and was equally wrong.) But the lesson is not that the economy is not threatened with recession, but that it simply didn’t come last year. Some combination of fiscal stimulus from tax cuts and lower interest rates, lower costs from deregulation, and simple consumer confidence has kept the U.S. economy buoyant.  This is not to say that the earlier expectations of a recession were incorrect, just that the timing was misjudged. Anyone who has followed economics for a long time should realize by now that economic principles are almost always valid but with uncertain timing. The uncertainty created by the Administration’s volatile policies has not triggered a recession—yet. Low unemployment hasn’t triggered inflation—yet.  Several admittedly fuzzy indicators make me concerned that the likelihood of recession has increased. One long-standing, tongue-in-cheek idea is that when the consensus is that we’ve conquered the business cycle, expect a recession (aka ‘reality bites’). This could be considered valid in an indirect way: economists think the business cycle has been conquered only when an expansion has lasted a long time, and recessions are more likely after a lengthy expansion. Another argument that I have made is when silly expenditures become common, people have too much money, which suggests that assets will probably become over-priced. Past examples include ‘oxygen bars’ in the 1990s where the well-off go to inhale air supposedly from pristine locations like Antarctica or now, ‘raw’ water for upwards of $24 a gallon.  Twenty-one years ago, in 1998, I was in a bar in Australia reading Charles Kindleberger’s “Panics, Manias, and Crashes” (yes, I’m a wild man) and the Asian financial crisis was underway. I noticed on the cover there was a blurb from Robert Solow to the effect that someday you will find this book relevant to current events. It cracked me up.  But the larger point was that Kindleberger noted that many crashes were preceded by an expansion of credit which led to asset inflation, but also debt, which created a later crash. I think of that now watching cable news with the many ads from companies with aps that allow businesses and individuals make loans quickly and easily. Combined with the recent headline “World Bank Warns Rapid Increase in Debt,” and there is obvious reason for concern.  So now, some combination of business uncertainty because of the trade war, consumer worries about a war with Iran, higher interest rates due to rising labor costs, or some black swan event could trigger a new recession, which would put pressure on an already-stressed oil market. But the flip side is that OPEC+, and especially Saudi Arabia, would almost certainly respond with new production cuts. After all, one of the prime motivations for cartels, whoever defined, has been to deal with short-term, transient weakness in demand, to avoid having businesses fail due to external conditions. (Recession cartels have often been used, more in Europe and Japan than the U.S.) While the sustainable long-term oil price is, as always, debatable, current Saudi policy suggests that they would not hesitate in response to downward pressure on oil demand due to a period of economic weakness. 