The members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries are scrambling to meet this week in Vienna to discuss deeper production cuts to account for demand destroyed by the coronavirus in China and the subsequent crash in oil prices. Oil production cut meetings have become all too familiar for the oil-price cartel, prompting questions of whether its dominant role in global oil markets has changed for good. OPEC has been in a defensive posture since late 2016, when it and some non-cartel allies, led by Russia, intervened in over-supplied oil markets with significant supply cuts to support higher prices and make room for booming U.S. shale production. OPEC, led by Saudi Arabia, has been unable to break out of the cycle of cuts ever since. Now there is talk of OPEC making additional cuts of between 500,000 and 1 million barrels a day to offset lost oil demand in Asia stemming from the coronavirus outbreak, which has prompted a near 20 percent drop in oil prices and reduced international benchmark Brent below $55 a barrel. A pandemic virus in China, the world’s engine of oil demand growth, may be considered a “black swan” event by some, but it illustrates the dilemma OPEC faces. Oil markets have become hardwired to the downside, and there have been precious few catalysts to support prices, never mind pushing them on an upward trajectory. In the last five months alone, oil markets have brushed off devastating attacks on Saudi Arabia’s oil facilities, which temporarily knocked out more than half of the kingdom’s output, and the threat of all-out war in the Middle East, which peaked after the January 3 killing of Iran’s top military commander by a U.S. drone strike. These would have once be considered doomsday events by oil markets, yet they’ve hardly registered on traders’ radars. And there’s plenty more proof of this upside apathy. Virtually all of Libya’s 1.2 million barrels a day of production capacity has been taken offline since January 17 by a politically-inspired oil blockade. Elsewhere among the OPEC members, the exports of Iran and Venezuela have been decimated by U.S. sanctions in the past two years, while Iraq, the cartel’s second-largest producer, is on the frontline of the mounting tensions between the United States and Iran. The reality is that the latest Libya outage, which could drag on for months, may very well be enough to account for a temporary loss of demand in China. But oil traders don’t appear to care. Their bias to downside risk is nearly unshakeable at this point. It’s not hard to see why. No matter how many supply outages or threats to production emerge, there remains too much capacity in the market. The Saudi-led OPEC+ alliance is deliberately withholding 2.1 million barrels a day off the market. That’s up from 1.2 million barrels a day of output cuts the group originally agreed to from 2017 to 2019. There is also plenty of oil in storage around the world, especially in Asia. OPEC’s latest monthly report puts OECD commercial oil stocks at 2.92 billion barrels at the end of November, a little higher than the 2.91 billion reported by the International Energy Agency (IEA). That puts inventories at between 8.9 million barrels (IEA) and 17.5 million (OPEC) above their average level for the last five years. So much oil stockpiled has a dramatic effect on the sentiment of investors, many of whom have been put off by oil’s performance in recent years. This problem has been evident in equity markets for some time. The S&P indexes that track oil services companies and producers are both now trading at all-time lows. Shares of Exxon Mobil, long considered the gold standard for major oil companies because of its superior financial returns, are trading at a 10-year low. Some of this is a structural shift. As the oil industry matures, investors increasingly don’t see it as a growth business and are on the lookout for better investment opportunities. And this thinking may be bleeding into the commodity market itself, with potentially enormous ramifications for OPEC. Gone are the days when OPEC members fretted about finding the “sweet spot” for oil prices — the point that would generate maximum revenues to fund national budgets while keeping global oil demand humming at a healthy clip. OPEC is more often than not on its back foot, trying to adjust its output enough to keep prices from falling too far, too fast. That’s a role cartel members are unaccustomed to playing. It will be interesting to see whether OPEC members are up for it. Within the expanded OPEC+ group, Russia has already suggested it will move away from output cuts later this year. Other member states, however, may have no choice given their dependency on oil revenues to balance their annual budgets. A slowdown in U.S. shale oil production growth may help stem OPEC’s decline, but that’s far from certain. The U.S. Energy Information Administration and other analysts expect shale output to level out and enjoy a long plateau, rather than suffer a steep decline. The U.S. shale dragon should remain a strong force in the market for at least the next decade. As oil demand in the world’s advanced economies continues to slow, OPEC is facing the prospects of being in the supply-cutting “downside protection” business for the foreseeable future. Such a scenario marks a major turning point for the global oil industry and a significant change of fortune for the members of OPEC.