Guyana, the small and sparsely populated nation on South America’s northern coast, ended 2019 with great economic news as a consortium of oil companies led by ExxonMobil announced the first commercial production of crude oil from the Liza Field in its Stabroek block on December 20th. Guyana is soon to become the fastest growing economy in the Caribbean, with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) projecting that GDP will grow by nearly 90 percent next year. This growth will be largely driven by oil revenues as new production phases come online in the deep waters off the country’s eastern coast. That prospective oil wealth has naturally become the focal point of political campaigns, which kicked off on January 10th ahead of a general election to be held in early March. Guyana’s primary political factions are still developing plans for how to use oil revenues to address Guyana’s desperate need for improved infrastructure, education and healthcare. Not everyone is looking to the future, however. The fairness of the Stabroek’s production sharing agreement (PSA) between the ExxonMobil-led consortium and the government has been an issue of increasing importance. While some local voices have lobbied for Guyana to force a contract renegotiation, political parties have stuck by their intent to leave the Stabroek PSA intact. But Guyanese political leaders are now receiving pressure from international organizations and advocacy groups, as befits its new status as a major oil producer. A new report from Global Witness, an international NGO traditionally focused on exposing corruption and halting natural resource extraction, alleges the PSAs governing offshore activities are unfair and the product of bad faith negotiations and conflicts of interest. Yet upon closer examination, the allegations don’t really stand up. Global Witness states repeatedly and unequivocally that it found no evidence of any wrongdoing by ExxonMobil nor Guyana’s government ministers. Instead, the report focuses on the terms of the Stabroek contract itself and finds that Guyana is somehow leaving $55 billion on the table. This conclusion is based on an analysis Global Witness commissioned from OpenOil, a Berlin-based company which provides analyses for NGOs. This conclusion is based on a comparison between what Guyana would make with an overall take of 52 percent and 69 percent. The basis for either of these percentages is left unclear in the report. Other analyses have concluded that the government take will be higher than the 52% number. Rystad Energy, a Norwegian consultancy whose raw data OpenOil used in its analysis, came to the conclusion that Guyana would get 60 percent. OpenOil suggests that 69 percent is in line with the global average for oil contracts, but does not acknowledge the need to compare Guyana’s fiscal regime with those of other “frontier” producing regions. A recent Wood Mackenzie analysis found that Guyana’s contract was right in line with other emerging producers. The OpenOil analysis also references a 2012 IMF report titled “Fiscal Regimes for Extractive Industries: Design and Implementation.” That report cataloged the tax and royalty rates for oil and gas projects received by countries all over the world, but looked at only two South American nations, Argentina and Brazil. OpenOil does not disclose the fact that Guyana’s contract with the Exxon-led Consortium falls above the average received by those two countries. Of course, the reality is that Guyana does not stand to “lose” anything in its deal with the Consortium. As Rystad Energy details in its new report, the country in fact stands to become one of the wealthiest per-capita countries in the Western Hemisphere in the coming decade under the provisions negotiated in its agreement: “Rystad Energy forecasts that Guyana’s oil production could reach 1.2 million barrels per day by the end of the decade, lifting total annual oil revenues to about $28 billion, assuming an oil price of about $65 per barrel. Government income in the country – projected to be a modest $270 million or so in 2020 – is forecast to grow rapidly and could reach nearly $10 billion annually within a decade. Putting that figure into context, Guyana’s gross domestic product currently stands at about $3.7 billion.” Where the country would stand to actually lose billions would be if it were to follow Global Witness’s advice to not allow the Consortium to drill any more wells going forward, limiting the discovery process at Stabroek to the 16 wells already drilled to date. Global Witness doesn’t include this recommendation in the Executive Summary of the report, choosing instead to bury it halfway through the full report. With dozens more viable wellsites available to be drilled in the coming years within the Stabroek block, Guyana would stand to lose many billions in potential future revenues. Global Witness bases this advice on Climate Change concerns, but provides no rationale supporting why this historically poor, developing nation should be forced to bear such a disproportionate share of the economic burden of meeting the Paris Climate Accord goals when the developed nations of Europe, along with China, India and other economic powerhouses across the globe are currently doing so little. In the end, just a few hours of analysis reveals the Global Witness report for what it is: An ideologically-motivated attack piece aimed at some of the biggest players in the oil and gas industry. Which, given the group’s history, comes as no surprise at all.