Startups are in a challenging position. A founder launches their company with an idea of what they want to provide and to whom. But then things get confusing. First, the marketplace has a way of trying to distract you from your original intention. I experienced this when I was running a mobile parking payment platform. Our road map included all kinds of innovations for merchants, cities, private operators and customers. But our core product was straightforward: Pay for parking with your phone. But, as we went to market, the cities, parking companies and urban merchants wanted more. They were imagining our ultimate product and could see the benefits new features would bring. A mayor would say, “Wow, we’d jump right on this if it could do mobile couponing now.” The other thing that happens to startups is they are under constant pressure to generate revenue. A next round of funding often hangs in the balance as investors demand an “acceptable” level of growth. Venture capitalists want numbers, and they aren’t too worried about where those come from. This push-and-pull from the marketplace and investors creates a kind of tug-of-war in which strategy and vision — if ever there were any — are forgotten in the race to sell and to ship. Allowing customers and VCs to run your strategy and dictate your road map can be existentially dangerous for companies that, for whatever reason, fall slightly behind in either getting the next round of funding or closing the next deal. History is littered with failed startups that couldn’t bridge the gap between what they thought they needed to provide prospective customers and the resources they had. When considering his own failed startup, Shyp, CEO Kevin Gibbon said, “People close to me and the business began to warn that chasing consumers was the wrong strategy … I didn’t listen … But, growth at all costs is a dangerous trap that many startups fall into, mine included.” Along with simply running out of money, there’s a different kind of danger in instances like this. Imagine you start out with an idea and set of values focused on urban sustainability and on selling your innovative technology to municipalities and utilities. But, while demonstrating the product at a trade show, someone from an oil company suggests the product could also be used to accelerate crude oil refinement. Imagine that discovery attracts a certain kind of momentum, leading to that buyer and others being ready to buy — now. This happens all the time. It makes sense, because the same technology may be applicable in different scenarios and use cases. For a founder under pressure to generate revenue, this can be a genuine conflict. Selling to industry is faster and more lucrative than either government or utilities. For revenue alone, it is perfectly logical to pivot their focus toward the industrial customers. But, if the entire mission is distorted by the pivot, their strategy becomes obsolete. The opportunity to impact sustainability is now a memory. The call of cash is compelling, and the VCs who are chasing returns will almost never push back against quicker delivery. Founders in this situation justify it to themselves several ways. Of course, they feel beholden to their investors and, if truth be told, to making payroll or building cash flow. But they also usually convince themselves that this is a short-term decision and that, once the revenue stream is stable, they will get back to the original plan. That rarely happens. In a situation like this (admittedly hyperbolic to illustrate the point), how can you get back to the original vision and mission? Can you? Typically, the company morphs into something very different, sometimes in direct opposition to the original intent. This is especially true in startups, where resources are always stretched, and the infrastructure needed to deliver to any market rarely allows adding another vertical to the mix. Pretty quickly, the sales and marketing teams are entirely focused on the new target market, and the whole company shifts. It doesn’t take too long before there is nothing of the original vision left and the opportunity has been squandered, albeit perhaps with great financial returns. This isn’t an isolated case. In my client base, I have seen it happen in companies with missions as varied as emergency management, biotech and augmented reality. An investor might say the correct orientation for a business is toward profitability in the shortest possible time frame. But there is a strong argument that a business should do more than make money — it should serve its community, society and stakeholders and the commitments of its founders. As recently as last year, the Business Roundtable pivoted to embrace that position. But when profit skews strategy away to its own goals, that option is largely lost. The losers are both the founders’ goals and the sector that could have successfully been served. A further cost is the potential profits of the original vision and strategy, had they fully been executed. Those profits would have come more slowly but might have been greater. There’s no way to know. If a strategy is designed and followed — tested and tweaked — it can make these decisions easier and less tempting. Even companies with lots of money face this. The reality is every strategy generates dilemmas along the way. The hardest part of staying true to a strategy is choosing what not to pursue, which opportunities to ignore. Choosing wisely may be the biggest challenge of leadership.