Deal Overview  On January 22, 2020, Bloomberg reported that Deutsche Lufthansa AG (OTC US: DLAKY US, $15.53, Market Cap: $7.4 billion; Xetra: LHA GR, €14.10, Market Cap: €6.7 billion) is planning for a partial spin-off or IPO of its maintenance business division, Lufthansa Technik. Lufthansa Technik is the world’s leading independent provider of maintenance, repair and overhaul services (MRO) for civilian commercial aircraft. In 9M19, MRO contributed about 11.5% (€3.2 billion) to Lufthansa group’s total external revenue (€27.8 billion). Lufthansa shares were up by ~3.3% in the early trade post the news. According to news reports, the company began considering adopting a holding structure to simplify its operations and to focus mainly on its core airline business in December 2019. According to some reports, one of Deutsche Lufthansa’s activist investors, Bluebell Capital Partners met the company’s management to discuss alternatives for the MRO unit, which included listing 25-30% of the company’s stake in the unit. The company has not provided any definitive information regarding the potential spin-off as the review is reportedly at an early stage. Even the timeline for the same has reportedly not been set as the process of reorganization involves complex legal and tax issues. In December 2019, the company filled several important leadership positions. Dieter Vranckx assumed the position of CEO for Brussels Airlines on January 1, 2020. Jens Bischof will take over as Chairman of Eurowings GmbH from March 1, 2020. Patrick Staudacher will join Lufthansa Group on May 1, 2020 and take over the position of CFO and Head of Business Development for the Lufthansa core brand. In November 2019, Lufthansa’s Executive Board approved the sale of its European catering business of the LSG Group (Lufthansa’s Catering Business) to Gategroup. The company concluded the transaction in December 2019 and did not disclose any related financial details. The sale was part of Lufthansa’s new strategy to focus on the airline business. As part of the deal, Gategroup entered into a long-term catering partnership with the Lufthansa Group. The sale of the remaining part of the LSG Group would be initiated this year. On January 21, 2020, Lufthansa Group announced its strategic partnership with Silicon Valley based Travel Management Company, TripActions to foster modern airline retailing and to improve customer experience. This minority stake in TripActions marks the fourth strategic tech investment of Lufthansa Group facilitated through the Lufthansa Innovation Hub. Deal Rationale  The Lufthansa Group is a leading aviation group with business segments comprising of Network Airlines, Eurowings and Aviation Services (including logistics; maintenance, repair and overhaul services or MRO; and catering). The Network Airlines unit is the market leader in Europe, while Eurowings is the leader in the domestic market. The company also maintains a leadership position in the logistics business in Europe and in Aviation Services globally. Lufthansa has been grappling with lower short-haul fares, given the global slowdown and competition from low-cost airlines, especially for Eurowings. Furthermore, the long-haul pricing has been pressured by trade war, moderating German exports and austerity measures by corporate clients. The rising oil prices during the year only added fuel to the fire (quite literally!). Consequently, the company was forced to issue two profit warnings in 1H19. Additionally, Lufthansa’s share price erosion since 2018 has left investors thirsting for concrete value creation measures from the management. The struggling carrier initiated measures to improve performance at all its units making modest profits or losses. Management expects the fleet standardization, closure of decentralized operations and other efficiency measures to result in cost reduction of €90 million by 2021 at Austrian Airlines. The company is also adopting a new holding company structure to allow better autonomy at its units. Moreover, as part of its strategy, the company decided to divest non-passenger businesses, which have low synergies with the core airline business. Accordingly, in November 2019, Lufthansa announced the sale of its European catering business. However, the company considers the other two units, Lufthansa Cargo and Lufthansa Techniq (MRO unit), to have high level of synergies with its core operations. Hence, instead of an outright sale, we believe that management may be more inclined towards a carve out and/or a spin-off of Lufthansa Techniq. Amongst all the units, Lufthansa Techniq has been delivering the highest growth and more stable operating margins relative to other segments. For 9M19, the segment contributed ~12% to total revenue and ~18% to Adjusted EBIT. We reckon if a separation of Lufthansa Techniq were to happen, the airline would be following in the footsteps of other established German companies such as Siemens AG and Thyssenkrupp AG, which have engaged in spin-offs or carve-outs to enhance shareholder value. Lufthansa may retain majority stake in Lufthansa Techniq, given synergies of the unit with the group’s core airline services operations. We opine that a potential carve-out will enable the airline to not only monetize part stake in Lufthansa Techniq, but also retain exposure to the unit’s growth prospects courtesy its majority holding post the deal. Lufthansa may invest funds from the IPO for digitalization or expansion initiatives. Even if the parent decides to proceed with a spin-off (rather than a carve-out), except for the monetization part, we believe other benefits to remain intact. Namely, we expect the quantum of value creation for the parent to be highest from the separation of the pure-play MRO unit (rather than any other unit), given its lower cyclicality, relatively high-growth, consistent profitability, stable cash flows from maintenance revenue and leadership position. The separation may also help the parent in better capital allocation, reduction in conglomerate discount and better focus on improving profitability at the core airline operations. Although IATA expects the global airline industry to generate net profit of $29.3bn in 2020e (2019e: $25.9bn), headwinds from the global economic slowdown still persist. The company currently faces strong competition in its home market of Central Europe (particularly Germany and Austria), which is suffering from overcapacity. Moreover, the impending aviation tax from the German government could erode margins as the company may not be able to pass the corresponding higher expenses to customers due to overcapacity in the market. Additionally, competition from low-cost service providers is hampering the company’s top-line growth and profitability. Furthermore, the recent outbreak of novel corona virus has forced airlines to cancel flights to and from China, the world’s largest outbound international travel market. In the past, the global airline industry has suffered huge losses post a similar epidemic, SARS as air traffic was hit. According to International Air Transport Association (IATA), the outbreak of SARS in 2003 had drained the airlines in the Asia-Pacific region of ~8% of their annual revenues. Given that Lufthansa has ~7% of its capacity dedicated to China and with curtailed passenger travel during the Chinese new year, the company may get adversely impacted. In a bid to negate these headwinds, the company is steering price-sensitive travelers to Eurowings and Brussels Airlines, and shifting its business to carry high-yielding and leisure traffic through hub airlines Lufthansa, Austrian and Swiss. The company is also focused on curtailing costs for its lower-priced Eurowings segment, and plans to reduce CASK by ~15% by 2022. One of Europe’s largest airlines, Lufthansa, grew revenue at a CAGR of 4.5% from FY14-18 to €35.8 billion; adjusted EBIT at a CAGR of 24.7% and expanded its margin by ~400bps to 7.9% during the corresponding period. The Network Airlines segment primarily contributed to the growth, with a market share of 17% for short-haul and 52% for long-haul in the premium class airline industry. The airline’s strategy to become a holding company, would allow individual units to focus on their distinct growth strategy. Moreover the company is focusing on its core airline business and diverting from the non-passenger businesses. The MRO segment is Lufthansa’s best performing segment, generating double-digit top-line growth and stable margins. With the increase in global air traffic and aircrafts becoming more complex, the demand for maintenance, repair and overhaul services is bound to grow. Being one of the largest providers of MRO services globally, Lufthansa Technik is well placed to take advantage of this demand. If the parent retains a sizable stake in the MRO unit post separation, Lufthansa should also benefit from the growth prospects at the unit. Moreover, an IPO of the unit will also provide funds for improved capital allocation. Valuation  We value Deutsche Lufthansa (Stub) and Lufthansa Technik (Spin-Off) on Sum-of the-Parts valuation methodology by applying 2020E relative valuation multiples on our financial estimates. We initially arrive at the Euro-denominated share value for the company’s Europe-listed ticker, LHA. We then apply a $/€ exchange rate of 1.10 to arrive at the per share value on the company’s US-listed DLAKY share. We note that the net obligations for the consolidated entity include net debt of €6.1 billion and pension provisions of €7.9 billion. Due to the unavailability of information regarding the split of net debt and pension provisions between the Stub entity and the Spin-Off entity, we have apportioned the same approximately on the basis of revenue. We caution investors that the below valuation estimates are subject to change, once more accurate information is made available by the company. Deutsche Lufthansa AG (Stub entity)  We apply a significant discount to Deutsche Lufthansa (Stub) as it transitions to a pure-play airline, although the company will continue to hold interests in other ancillary services. We note that the unit will be exposed to the weakness in the global airline market, especially at the Eurowings unit and as the world grapples with the adverse impact from the aftereffects of the novel corona virus. We think the separation of Lufthansa Technik, we expect the Stub entity to be valued at 2020E EV/Sales of 0.4x and 2020E EV/ EBITDA of 2.6x, about in-line with some other struggling European operators such as Air France-KLM. Accordingly, we arrive at an average Enterprise Value of €13.5 billion for Deutsche Lufthansa (Stub). Subsequently, we deduct the assumed proportionate net debt (€4.9 billion) and pension provisions (€6.3 billion) and minority interest of €107 million (apportioned entirely to the Stub entity) to arrive at an Equity Value of €2.2 billion or €5.00 per DLAKY share ($6.00 per DLAKY share). Lufthansa Technik AG (Spin-off entity)  We think that the company’s Lufthansa Technik unit is one of its best due to robust top-line growth, stable margins and strong growth prospects. Accordingly, we value Lufthansa Technik at relatively higher 2020E EV/Sales of 1.4x and 2020E EV/EBITDA of 7.1x, resulting in an Enterprise Value of €7.6 billion. We deduct proportionate net debt and pension provisions of €2.8 billion to arrive at an implied Equity Value of €4.8 billion or €10.00 per DLAKY share ($11.00 per DLAKY share). Separately, Bloomberg Intelligence estimates Lufthansa Technik’s enterprise value at €7.5 billion, which is higher than the parent’s market capitalization of €6.7 billion. Some other analysts have pegged the enterprise value of the unit at €8.0-9.0 billion. Deutsche Lufthansa AG (Consolidated)  However, the separation process may be complicated and long-drawn out, given the unit is closely integrated with the parent and share strong synergies. Moreover, management may be required to consider restructuring the contractual obligations and transfer pricing. For the consolidated entity, we sum the value of both the units to arrive at the Equity Value of €7.0 billion or a target price of €15.00 per DLAKY share ($17.00 per DLAKY share). Accordingly, we initiate coverage on Deutsche Lufthansa (Consolidated) with a Hold rating. Deutsche Lufthansa AG (DLAKY) is a global aviation company headquartered in Cologne, Germany. The company offers flight and connection programs in North America, Scandinavia, and Asia. DLAKY also provides travel agency, catering, and aircraft maintenance services. The company’s segments include; Logistics; maintenance, repair and overhaul services (MRO), Catering and Other. With 135,534 employees, the Lufthansa Group generated revenue of €35,844m in the financial year 2018. Segments:  Network Airlines: The Network Airlines segment includes Lufthansa German Airlines, SWISS and Austrian Airlines. The airlines offer customers a premium experience, with high-quality products and services. According to the Skytrax ranking, customers rate them as the three best-quality airlines in Western Europe. In the 2018 summer flight timetable, the route network comprised 287 destinations in 86 countries, served via the international hubs in Frankfurt, Munich, Zurich and Vienna. Eurowings: The Eurowings segment consists of the following airlines: Eurowings, Germanwings, Eurowings Europe, Brussels Airlines and Luftfahrtgesellschaft Walter (LGW). The equity investment in SunExpress is also part of this segment. Through Eurowings, the company provides services to price-sensitive and service-oriented customers of growing European direct traffic segment. In the 2018 summer flight timetable , the route network comprised of 197 destinations in 62 countries. Logistics: Lufthansa Cargo is one of leading provider of international scheduled airfreight services. Its product portfolio encompasses standard and express freight as well as highly specialised products. The company has specialised infrastructure at Frankfurt Airport to handle the sensitive goods, including the Frankfurt Animal Lounge and the Lufthansa Cargo Cool Centre. In addition to Lufthansa Cargo, the Logistics segment includes the airfreight container management specialist Jettainer group, the time:matters subsidiary, and the equity investment in the cargo airline AeroLogic. Lufthansa Cargo also has equity investments in various handling companies and smaller companies involved in aspects of digitalising the sector. MRO: The company provides maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) services for civilian commercial aircrafts through Lufthansa Technik. The Lufthansa Technik group consists of 31 technical maintenance operations around the world. IT also holds direct and indirect stakes in 61 companies. Lufthansa Technik’s customers include OEMs, aircraft leasing companies and operators of VIP jets, as well as airlines.  Catering: The company offers a complete portfolio of products and services related to in-flight service through LSG group. LSG Sky Chefs provides catering for airlines and rail operators as well as lounge management. Retail inMotion is responsible for the development and management of airlinespecific in-flight sales programmes. SPIRIANT specialises in the design and procurement of in-flight service equipment, whereas Evertaste makes convenience food for the travel and retail industries. The company also offers security services at airports in North America via SCIS. Additional Businesses and Group Functions: Additional Businesses and Group Functions include DLAKY’s service and financial companies, above all AirPlus, Lufthansa Aviation Training and the IT companies, as well as the Group functions for the Lufthansa Group. FY18 Results Revenue grew marginally to €35.8 billion (+1% YOY), impacted by first time application of IFRS 15 accounting standard. Adjusted revenue (excluding the IFRS 15 impact) increased 6%, driven by growth in both Traffic (+7%) and other (+3%) revenue. Operating expenses amounted to €35.5 billion, an increase of 7% on adjusted basis. Adjusted EBITDA was largely stable at €5.0 billion, while corresponding margin narrowed ~10bps to 14.0%. Adjusted EBIT was €2.8 billion (-4%) while corresponding margin was at 7.9%, (-~40bps). Earnings per share reduced to €4.58 (-8%). Dividend per share was stable at €0.8. Network Airlines: Revenue grew 5% YOY to €22.7 billion (excluding IFRS effect) driven by growth in traffic revenue by 5% YOY. Adjusted EBIT increased by 6% to €2.4 billion, while corresponding margin expanded by ~90bps to 10.7%. This was mainly due to effect of IFRS 15 and changes in pension plan income. Adjusted ROCE expanded 110bps to 19.4%. Eurowings: Revenue grew to €4.2 billion (+19% excluding IFRS effect) driven by growth in traffic revenue (+20%). The company reported negative adjusted EBIT margin of -5.5% (FY18: 1.5%), due to impairment losses on financial investments and measurement effects for pensions in connection with the wage agreement with the Vereinigung Cockpit pilots union.. Adjusted ROCE was negative at 8.2%. Logistics: Revenue grew by 7% to €2.7 billion particularly due to the strong rise in yields. Adjusted EBIT increased by 2% to €268 million while corresponding margin reduced by ~50 bps to 9.9%. Adjusted ROCE reduced to 14.6%. There was substantial increase in capital expenditure to €374 million (FY18: €79 million) due to the down payment for two new B777 freighters MRO: Revenue increased to €5.9 billion (+10%) which was majorly contributed by external revenue (€3.8 billion). Strong growth in America and a solid performance in Europe also contributed to this. Adjusted EBIT grew 2% YOY to €425 million due to the strong performance in component maintenance. The corresponding margin reduced by 50bps to 7.2%. Capital expenditure increased by 3% to €241 million due to purchase of reserve engines and engine servicing joint venture with General Electric and MTU. Catering: Revenue was largely stable at €3.2 billion. Operating expenses fell by 1% to €3.2 billion due to lower expenses for restructuring the European business and lower write-downs on trade receivables. There was significant increase in adjusted EBIT to €115 million (FY18: €66 million) and corresponding margin expanded by 150bps to 3.6%. Capital expenditure reduced by 6% to €79 million. 9M19 Results: Total Revenue grew to €27.7 billion (+3% YOY) driven by 2% increase in traffic revenue. Positive volume and exchange rate effects compensated for lower pricing. Operating expenses increased by 7% to €27.9 billion due to increased fuel costs and external MRO costs. Adjusted EBITDA reduced to €3.7 billion (-9%). Adjusted EBIT decreased drastically to €1.7 billion (-30%), primarily due to lower unit revenues and higher fuel costs, partially offset by reduction in unit costs. Consequently, net profit decreased considerably to €1.0 billion (-43%). Company Description  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (Parent)  Deutsche Lufthansa AG is an aviation group with worldwide operations. The company reports in three major business segments: Network Airlines, Eurowings and Aviation Services. Aviation Services includes the sub-segments: Logistics, MRO, Catering and Additional Businesses and Group Functions.  Lufthansa Technik (Spin-Off)  Lufthansa Technik AG is the world’s leading independent provider of maintenance, repair and overhaul services (MRO) for civilian commercial aircraft. The company serves more than 850 customers worldwide, including OEMs, aircraft leasing companies and operators of VIP jets, as well as airlines. 