In early July 2018, things were looking bleak for general Khalifa Haftar and his Libyan National Army (LNA). A couple weeks earlier, the LNA had seized control of four key ports in the eastern half of Libya, an area that was already largely under its control. It then imposed a blockade on all oil tankers attempting to set sail from those ports, fanning fears of a global supply crunch — Libya exports a little more than 1 million barrels per day — and pushing oil prices higher. Eager to keep prices low, US president Donald Trump threatened legal action against Haftar. And Haftar’s usual allies — France, Egypt, the UAE — were conspicuously silent this time. The general couldn’t have held out for very long. So, in a move that took many off guard, Haftar’s LNA handed back control of the four ports to Libya’s internationally recognized National Oil Company (NOC) on 11 July, 2018. Oil output soon rose back to usual levels and revenue was again flowing through Libya’s fragile economy. Global oil markets relaxed. Now Libya finds itself in the middle of another blockade, once again imposed by Haftar’s LNA. But this time Hafter is likely to hold out longer — perhaps much longer. Fears of an ascendant coronavirus are expected to lop off a sizable share of oil demand, pushing prices lower and giving Haftar cover. Moreover, the LNA now controls an additional 30% of Libya’s oil production capacity thanks to recent military gains, giving Haftar more leverage. As always, uncertainty prevails in Libya’s civil war. The blockade, now 13 days old, could end as soon as next week, according to Hamish Kinnear of consultancy Verisk Maplecroft. But it also wouldn’t be surprising if it lasted much longer. “There is...potential for the oil blockade to stretch on for months as both sides refuse to back down.” Since shortly after the dictator Muammar el-Qaddafi was killed in a NATO-backed mission in 2011, Libya has been locked in a civil war with no end in sight. The war pits the LNA, based in the eastern city of Tobruk, against the United Nations-backed Government of National Accord (GNA) in the western city of Tripoli. Libya has only six million people, but neither side has managed to gain the upper hand — partly because each is backed by powerful foreign countries, which supply either weapons and mercenaries. The LNA is backed by Russia, the UAE, Egypt, and France, while the GNA is backed Turkey and a number of western governments. In the middle of this fiercely political contest sits Libya’s National Oil Company (NOC), the steward of Libya’s immensely lucrative oil exports. In order to stay out of the line of fire, it works hard to portray itself as a neutral player. Its technocratic chairman, Mustafa Sanalla, assiduously advertises the neutrality of the company on its Facebook page and in press releases. It has not been enough for Haftar. His LNA has long complained that the money NOC makes from its sales of oil — some $2 billion a month — often wind up in the pockets of mercenaries who are fighting on the side of the GNA. Such grievances were at the heart of the last oil blockade in July 2018, when he called for the removal of the head of the central bank, Saddek el-Kaber. (In Libya, the central bank is responsible for paying the salaries of civil servants, such as teachers and doctors. But there are widespread concerns about corruption.) If Haftar succeeds in gaining access to a larger share of the central bank’s revenue, he would have “more resources for the war effort in north-west Libya,” where the capital of Tripoli is based, according to Kinnear. “This would not only be in the form of purchasing more military material, but also to use promises of cash to entice wavering or unaligned militia groups based in the west of the country,” Kinnear writes in a recent briefing. “The strategy of ‘buying out’ militia groups was a key aspect of the LNA’s successful move into south-western Libya in early 2019 and into Sirte [in central Libya] in early 2020.” But the LNA would have to keep up its economic siege against the GNA a long time, if it were determined to starve the GNA of revenue. As of October 2019, the central bank had foreign exchange reserves of $77 billion, according to Kinnear, citing central bank data: enough to last months. To resolve a long-running stand off, influential players like the United States may need to play a mediating role, as they have done in the past. In a speech delivered to Chatham House this week, the London-based think tank, the NOC’s Sanallah all but pleaded but for foreign powers to step in. So far, however, there have been few indications that foreign powers are poised to play the role of mediator. A ceasefire agreement in Berlin two weeks ago was quickly violated, and, with oil prices under pressure from concerns that the coronavirus is eating into global oil demand, many may be secretly glad that lower Libyan oil supply is helping to somewhat offset a price decline. The current oil blockade is now about as long as the July 2018 blockade. But outside Libya, concern is muted. According to Kinnear: “So far there has been no sense of urgency.” 