The selling in crude oil has increased, predominantly driven by fears of what the coronavirus may do to demand as China’s economy shuts down. Despite this, prices have attempted to rebound on the hopes that scientific efforts to contain the virus would be successful. The May crude oil contract had a low of $49.72 on Tuesday, but was up 2.5% early Wednesday. It then traded as high as $52.52 in Thursday’s trading before closing at $51.47. In last week’s post, I looked at the seasonal trends for gold. I have followed the seasonal trends for crude oil even longer. An analysis of data on the crude oil futures going back to 1984 shows that it has had a clear seasonal tendency, listed below prices on the chart above. Crude oil typically tops in July with a peak favored on July 13 (line 1). The data then reveals that crude prices are likely to bottom between December 14 (line 2) and February 8 (line 3). This window was on target in 2018, as crude oil bottomed with stocks at the end of December 2018. Prices then peaked in April 2019, which was ahead of the normal tendency. With one day left in the week, crude oil looks ready to form a doji (point 4). If it does, then a close above the doji high next week will generate a buy signal. A monthly doji buy signal in gold identified the low for the SPDR Gold Trust (GLD) in the fall of 2018 (see chart). The weekly chart of the May crude oil contract shows that there were twin lows in August and October in the $49.26 area (line a). The weekly starc- band has been exceeded for the past three weeks. This means that crude oil is in a high-risk area to sell but a low-risk area to buy. May crude oil has declined from a high of $64.39 on January 8, to a low Tuesday of $49.72. This has been a decline of 22.8%. The weekly on-balance-volume (OBV) dropped below its Weighted Moving Average (WMA) with the close on January 24, and now needs to move back above its flat WMA in order to turn positive. The Herrick Payoff Index, is a unique technical indicator which uses volume, open interest, and prices to measure money flow. It dropped below its WMA one week before the OBV, and is now well below its declining WMA. A look at the daily chart of May crude reveals that the daily OBV dropped below its WMA and the HPI dropped below the zero line on January 9 (line 1). Prices are still well below the declining 14-day WMA and would take several days of flat or positive price action before it could bottom out. This is also true of the OBV, but the HPI could turn around faster. The daily starc- band was exceeded this week, and is now at $47.94. The Energy Sector Select (XLE) was the weakest performing sector in 2019. That has continued in 2020, as it is down 9.4% YTD compared to a 9.6% gain YTD in the Technology Sector Select (XLK). A lot has been said in the financial press recently about the historical correlation between XLE and the Spyder Trust (SPY), which have tended to rise and fall together in recent years. Let's take a look at the chart, and see where price action has converged and diverged. The long term chart of the XLE (in red) and the Spyder Trust (SPY) shows that many times during the bull market, there has been a close correlation between the price action. At the March 2009 lows both bottomed together (line 1) and then rallied until April of 2011 (line 2). In early June of 2014, XLE peaked (line 3) and started to decline quite sharply, as the SPY kept moving higher. SPY topped out in the summer of 2015, and both then bottomed in February of 2016 (line 4). The SPY rallied up until October of 2018 and then spent the rest of the year declining. In contrast, XLE had several wide swings during this period before topping out in early July 2018 (line 5), well before the SPY. Since the fall of 2018, XLE and SPY have diverged, as while the SPY moved sharply higher in 2019 and in early 2020, the XLE has been under pressure. SPY had a total return of 31.2% in 2019, versus just a 11.7% total return for XLE, according to Morningstar.com. So what is the strategy? I will be monitoring the daily technical studies on crude oil as well as several of the energy sector ETFs. The sentiment was very negative on crude oil as the week started, and the stabilization of prices has probably not changed that. I will be providing updates on Twitter. If you are interested in following my style of analysis for ETF's as well as stocks, I hope you will consider the Viper ETF or Viper Hot Stocks reports. Specific recommendations are sent out twice each week, and each report is only $34.95 per month.