(The following statement was released by the rating agency) HONG KONG, November 02 (Fitch) Fitch Ratings has affirmed Saudi Arabia's Long-Term Foreign-Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at 'A+' with a Stable Outlook. A full list of rating actions is at the end of this rating action commentary. KEY RATING DRIVERS Saudi Arabia's ratings are supported by strong fiscal and external balance sheets, including exceptionally high international reserves, low government debt, significant government assets and strong commitment to an ambitious reform agenda. These strengths are balanced by high oil dependence, the prospect of slow non-oil growth, weak World Bank governance and business environment indicators and large fiscal deficits. The central government deficit is expected to narrow to 8.7% of GDP in 2017, from 17.2% in 2016, largely as a result of higher oil prices and because clearance of arrears that widened the 2016 deficit by 4.4% of GDP will no longer be necessary. The deficit will shrink more moderately in subsequent years to 5.4% of GDP in 2019. The government has indicated that expenditure may rise 4% next year, but a number of revenue measures should still lead to a significant improvement of the fiscal position. The government increased excise duties in June and expat levies in July and is still expected to raise energy costs before the end of the year. A 5% value added tax will be introduced at the beginning of 2018 and further energy price reforms and expat levies are also planned. The measures are part of the government's ambitious reform agenda, the Vision 2030, which seeks to put public finances on a sustainable basis but also aims to reduce the dependence of the government on oil revenue. The planned sale of a 5% stake in Saudi Aramco will primarily be used to fund domestic investments to diversify the economy. As such it is likely to have a limited impact on the government's balance sheet. The government is also pursuing the privatisation of other state entities and seeks to attract private financing for a wide range of projects. There is a risk that the government may need to step in if private sector financing fails to materialise for some projects or revenue assumptions for public private partnership projects prove optimistic. The government has financed its deficits by a combination of running down its deposits at the Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority (SAMA, the central bank) and by issuing domestic and external debt. As a result, general government deposits with SAMA are expected to continue declining, albeit at a slower pace, to 20.7% of GDP by 2019 from a peak of 57.7% in 2013 and 35.2% at end-2016. Meanwhile, central government debt is expected to rise to 24.9% of GDP in 2019, from 1.6% in 2014 and 13.1% in 2016. But at 19.1% of GDP in 2019, general government debt (excluding debt held by government entities) will still be well below the 'A' category median of 44.3%. The recovery of oil prices has led to a sharp improvement in the current account balance, which is expected to be broadly balanced in 2017 and 2018 after a deficit of 4.3% of GDP in 2016. Nonetheless, international reserves have continued to decline, by USD51 billion during the first nine months of 2017, partly reflecting large errors and omissions. However, at 23 months of current external payments, SAMA reserves are well above the 'A' category median of five months. Fitch expects GDP to contract 0.4% in 2017 as a whole, as OPEC oil production cuts outweigh a recovery in non-oil GDP induced by less tight fiscal policy, the stimulus from the payment of arrears at end-2016 and improved confidence. GDP should increase 0.8% in 2018, held back by non-oil revenue measures, and 1.3% in 2019. Inflation has remained negative during the first three quarters of 2017, but is likely to rise substantially as a result of energy price hikes and the new VAT. Fitch assigns Saudi Arabia's banking sector a Bank System Indicator of 'a', with only four jurisdictions receiving a higher rating. This reflects stable profitability, which has allowed the sector to build sizeable capital buffers against any downturn in the operating environment. The sector Tier 1 regulatory capital ratio was 17.2% at end-June 2017. A change in the royal succession announced in June has put Mohammed bin Salman, the main driver behind the Vision 2030, next in line for the throne. This has reduced risks to the implementation of the reform agenda. However, risks that the line of succession is challenged remain and the ambition for wider social reform could also lead to increased resistance from conservatives. The boycott of Qatar by Saudi Arabia and several other countries in the region are unlikely to have a significant economic impact on Saudi Arabia. However, the drastic measure increases risks that tensions with Iran could escalate suddenly. SOVEREIGN RATING MODEL (SRM) and QUALITATIVE OVERLAY (QO) Fitch's proprietary SRM assigns Saudi Arabia a score equivalent to a rating of 'A-' on the Long-Term Foreign-Currency (LT FC) IDR scale. Fitch's sovereign rating committee adjusted the output from the SRM to arrive at the final LT FC IDR by applying its QO, relative to rated peers, as follows: Public finances: +1 notch, to reflect the large government deposits held with SAMA as well as other government assets. External finances: +1 notch, to reflect the large size of sovereign net foreign assets, largely held as international reserves and the strong net external creditor position. Fitch's SRM is the agency's proprietary multiple regression rating model that employs 18 variables based on three-year centred averages, including one year of forecasts, to produce a score equivalent to a LT FC IDR. Fitch's QO is a forward-looking qualitative framework designed to allow for adjustment to the SRM output to assign the final rating, reflecting factors within our criteria that are not fully quantifiable and/or not fully reflected in the SRM. RATING SENSITIVITIES The following factors could, individually or collectively, trigger negative rating action: - Extended erosion of the fiscal or external positions, for example as a result of a failure to implement fiscal reforms or due to a renewed fall in oil prices; and - Spill-over from regional conflicts or a domestic political shock that threatens stability or affects key economic policies or activities. The following factors could, individually or collectively, trigger positive rating action: - Fiscal reforms or an extended improvement in oil prices that are sufficient to put the budget on a path to a surplus and to reverse the decline in the government's net creditor position. KEY ASSUMPTIONS Fitch forecasts Brent crude oil prices to average USD52.5/b in 2017 and 2018 and USD55/b in 2019. The full list of rating actions is as follows: Long-Term Foreign- and Local Currency IDRs affirmed at 'A+'; Outlook Stable Short-Term Foreign- and Local Currency IDRs affirmed at 'F1+' Country Ceiling affirmed at 'AA' Issue ratings on long-term senior unsecured foreign-currency bonds affirmed at 'A+' Issue ratings on KSA Sukuk Limited global trust certificates (sukuk) affirmed at 'A+' Contact: Primary Analyst Jan Friederich Senior Director +852 2263 9910 Fitch (Hong Kong) Limited 19/F Man Yee Building 68 Des Voeux Road Central Hong Kong Secondary Analyst Krisjanis Krustins Associate Director +852 2263 9831 Committee Chairperson James McCormack Managing Director +44 20 3530 1286 Media Relations: Peter Fitzpatrick, London, Tel: +44 20 3530 1103, Email: peter.fitzpatrick@fitchratings.com; Wai-Lun Wan, Hong Kong, Tel: +852 2263 9935, Email: wailun.wan@fitchratings.com. Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com Applicable Criteria Country Ceilings Criteria (pub. 21 Jul 2017) here Sovereign Rating Criteria (pub. 21 Jul 2017) here Sukuk Rating Criteria (pub. 14 Aug 2017) here Additional Disclosures Dodd-Frank Rating Information Disclosure Form here Solicitation Status here Endorsement Policy here ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: here IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS RELEVANT INTERESTS ARE AVAILABLE here FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE. Copyright © 2017 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch’s factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch’s ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed. The information in this report is provided “as is” without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers. For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001