(The following statement was released by the rating agency) HONG KONG/LONDON, November 08 (Fitch) The arrests of members of the Saudi royal family, current and former ministers and prominent businessmen increase political uncertainty in Saudi Arabia (A+/Stable), Fitch Ratings says. We believe that concentrating power in the hands of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman should bolster economic and social reform efforts, but heightens key man risk, and a backlash is possible. It is likely to take some time for the implications for the domestic political and policy environment to become clear. The detention of senior members of the Saudi elite following the creation of an anti-corruption commission under Mohammed bin Salman seems likely to immediately strengthen his position. The son of King Salman, Mohammed bin Salman was named as crown prince in June and is also defence minister. The appointment of a new interior minister in June strengthened his oversight of the powerful interior ministry and the replacement of the head of the National Guard last weekend is likely to give him greater control over this branch of the armed forces. The strengthening of his position should benefit near-term reform momentum given that the crown prince has been the dominant driving force behind Saudi Arabia's Vision 2030 reform agenda. However, we think it increases key man risk. As well as political rivals, those reportedly detained include some officials associated with the reform programme, such as Adel Fakeih, previously labour and then economy and planning minister. At this stage, it is not clear if the arrests may affect investor sentiment to an extent that significantly affects economic growth. In a statement on Tuesday, the crown prince said that the country's Economic Affairs Council recognised "the importance of ensuring that investors could operate with confidence in Saudi Arabia", and that anti-corruption measures were a key part of Vision 2030. But we think there is a risk that domestic political challenges could lead to a shift away from fiscal consolidation towards growth-boosting measures in the form of investments in the non-oil economy. Potential domestic challenges to reforms could emerge from three groups. The parts of the governing elite that are seeing their influence declining could try to fight back. Efforts to liberalise social policies, including promoting a less conservative version of Islam, could anger social conservatives. And reforms to reduce public deficits could lead to greater discontent among those most affected, despite significant efforts to cushion the economic impact through a citizen account system of allowances to low- and middle-income families. It remains to be seen if the events of recent days reduce the risk of such challenges or whether they embolden dissent regarding the crown prince's rapid rise and his policy agenda. International tensions have also risen in the wake of a missile attack on Riyadh's airport by Yemeni Houthis. Saudi Arabia has described this as an act of war by Iran. It has used similar language regarding Iran's role in Lebanon, whose prime minister resigned on Saturday. Following the boycott of Qatar (partly due to a dispute over relations with Iran), this highlights increased risks of a sudden escalation in tensions with Iran, as we noted when we affirmed Saudi Arabia's sovereign rating on 2 November. A degree of political risk is reflected in Saudi Arabia's rating. The country scores poorly on World Bank governance indicators (sustained anti-corruption measures can help improve governance indicators, but this typically takes time). Geopolitical risks are a long-standing constraint on many sovereign ratings in the Middle East. Nevertheless, spillovers from regional conflicts or a domestic political shock that threatens stability or affects economic policies or activity are rating sensitivities for Saudi Arabia. Contact: Jan Friederich Senior Director, Sovereigns +852 2263 9910 Fitch (Hong Kong) Ltd 19/F Man Yee Building 68 Des Voeux Road Central Hong Kong Ed Parker Managing Director, Sovereigns +44 20 3520 1176 Mark Brown Senior Analyst, Fitch Wire +44 20 3530 1588 Media Relations: Peter Fitzpatrick, London, Tel: +44 20 3530 1103, Email: peter.fitzpatrick@fitchratings.com. The above article originally appeared as a post on the Fitch Wire credit market commentary page. The original article can be accessed at www.fitchratings.com. All opinions expressed are those of Fitch Ratings. ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: here IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS RELEVANT INTERESTS ARE AVAILABLE here FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE. Copyright © 2017 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch’s factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch’s ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed. The information in this report is provided “as is” without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers. For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001