* Futures up: Dow 47 pts, S&P 6.25 pts, Nasdaq 7.25 pts By Tanya Agrawal Nov 24 (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were higher on Friday, a day after the Thanksgiving holiday, with retail stocks likely to be in focus as Black Friday kicks off the holiday shopping season. * While, the day is typically the busiest in the year for U.S. retailers, the stock market is expected to be relatively quiet, with an early close at 1:00 p.m. ET (1700 GMT). * By Thanksgiving evening, U.S. shoppers had splurged more than $1.52 billion online, a 16.8 percent jump over the same period last year, according to Adobe Analytics. * Surging online sales have eaten into the business of brick-and-mortar retailers, which get as much as 40 percent of their annual sales during the holiday shopping season. * After two disappointing years, the crowds at stores in many locations around the country this year were reported to be strong, according to analysts and retail consultants. * Shares of Macy’s were up 2.5 percent in thin premarket trading, while Wal-Mart and Target were little changed. Their biggest rival Amazon was up 0.8 percent. * Wall Street closed little changed on Wednesday, with telecom services shares among the biggest movers while the energy sector rose in line with gains in crude oil. * U.S. oil prices jumped to a two-year high on Friday as North American markets tightened on the partial closure of the Keystone pipeline linking Canada and the United States. Benchmark Brent crude was slightly higher. * U.S. stocks have been hovering near record levels, with the benchmark S&P 500 up 16 percent so far this year, helped by strong earnings, an improving economy and hopes of tax cuts by the Trump administration. * The S&P and the blue-chip Dow Jones Industrial Average are up 0.7 percent so far this week and, barring a sell off, are set to end higher for the first time in three weeks. * The Nasdaq Composite is up 1.2 percent this week, its best performance since the first week of October when the tech-heavy index gained 1.5 percent. * Shares of China’s RYB Education tumbled 34 percent after claims of childcare abuse by teachers and staff surfaced at one of its kindergartens. Futures snapshot at 6:36 a.m. ET: * Dow e-minis were up 47 points, or 0.2 percent, with 40,828 contracts changing hands. * S&P 500 e-minis were up 6.25 points, or 0.24 percent, with 211,146 contracts traded. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis were up 7.25 points, or 0.11 percent, on volume of 46,152 contracts. (Reporting by Tanya Agrawal; Editing by Savio D’Souza)