(The following statement was released by the rating agency) Link to Fitch Ratings' Report: Global Economic Outlook - December 2017 here LONDON, December 04 (Fitch) Global growth momentum remains strong and is likely to be sustained by an increasingly positive outlook for investment, says Fitch Ratings in its latest Global Economic Outlook (GEO). World growth is now estimated at 3.2% this year and indications are that 2018 will be equally robust with growth to edge up to 3.3% next year. "The lack of global inflation in the face of positive growth surprises is allowing exceptionally accommodative global monetary policy settings to co-exist with strong growth outturns and prospects. However, caution is warranted on how long this combination can persist. Beyond 2018, it seems highly likely that global growth will moderate, while monetary policy conditions will tighten," said Brian Coulton, Fitch's Chief Economist. In advanced economies, financial conditions remain very supportive, the drag from fiscal policy tightening has gone, and the investment cycle is firming up. Meanwhile, tight labour markets are bolstering consumer confidence and household spending. US growth should rise next year in response to tax cuts and accelerating private investment while better incoming data has led us to revise up our estimate of 2017 US growth to 2.3% from 2.1%. Eurozone growth now looks likely to be sustained at well-above-trend rates for at least a few more quarters, implying substantially faster growth in 2018 than previously expected - we have revised next year's forecast to 2.2% from 1.8% as the recovery proves more powerful and durable than anticipated. China's slowdown is likely to be only modest, while the stabilisation in commodity prices is helping emerging markets (EMs) outside China to continue to recover from the sharp downturn in 2015. China's economy is likely to slow in 2018, but the slowdown is expected to be relatively modest with growth easing to 6.4% from 6.8% this year. EM growth has recovered to an estimated 5.1% in 2017 from 4.3% in 2016. The demand rebound in China, stabilisation in global commodity prices, and recovery in world trade all played a part. External conditions are likely to remain favourable for EMs next year and EM growth is expected to edge up to 5.2% in 2018 as recoveries in Russia and Brazil strengthen and India picks up somewhat after temporary factors dampened growth in 2017. Monetary and credit conditions remain highly accommodative despite recent shifts in the global monetary policy narrative. Recent rate hikes by the Fed, the Bank of England (BOE) and the Bank of Canada have been a surprise relative to market expectations prevailing at the turn of the year but have failed to result in any significant tightening of global credit conditions. Three offsetting factors look to have been particularly important here: the ongoing easing by the European Central Bank (ECB) is likely having global impact (the Bank of Japan also continues to expand its balance sheet very aggressively); medium-term interest rate expectations in the US remain remarkably low and commercial bank credit standards have eased. The pick-up in GDP growth in the advanced economies looks increasingly likely to boost investment, where traditional "accelerator" forces on investment growth will start to be felt as companies strive to expand the capital stock in response to stronger demand. "The investment cycle is stirring. Improvements in business sentiment have become well-entrenched and there now appears to be a distinct absence of a looming threat to near-term growth that has dogged financial and business confidence over the last few years," added Coulton. An improving investment outlook has been the main driver of our upward revision to eurozone GDP growth in 2018, and we have upgraded our projections for private investment in the US next year. The UK stands in contrast, with recent business surveys of investment intentions pointing to weakening investment in the face of Brexit uncertainties. Nevertheless, UK growth forecasts have been revised up slightly to 1.6% in 2017 and 1.4% in 2018 on the back of incoming data and a looser fiscal policy stance. Beyond 2018, however, we believe reality checks await. In particular, current growth in the advanced economies is well above potential, with the implication that output gaps are closing quickly. This is corroborated by declining unemployment rates. On the basis of our latest forecasts, output gaps will be in positive territory across all the advanced countries except the UK by 2019. Even allowing for uncertainties in real-time estimates of the output gap, this is bound to prompt a shift in central bank attitudes towards monetary policy. This can already be detected in recent moves by the Fed, the Bank of Canada and the BOE, which have all referenced low unemployment rates and/or diminishing spare capacity in recent tightening moves. Given the potential for further upside to growth, particularly if the private investment cycle accelerates sharply or fiscal policy is eased more aggressively than we anticipate, it would inevitably bring with it an elevated risk of faster monetary policy tightening. This is a risk that could transpire even without stronger growth. Low unemployment rates and increasing anecdotal reports of labour shortages could result in a faster-than-expected pick-up in wage inflation. As this would substantially increase the risk of ongoing increases in CPI inflation, central banks would be forced to respond. The possibility of a further escalation in Saudi Arabia-Iran tensions could lead to a sharp rise in oil prices, which would be hard for central banks to ignore in the context of rapidly diminishing economic slack. Other risks to world growth include disruptions to global trade, China's medium-term debt challenges and the risk of a renewed widespread appreciation of the dollar. The Global Economic Outlook is available at www.fitchratings.com or by clicking the link above. Contact: Brian Coulton Chief Economist Managing Director +44 20 3530 1140 Fitch Ratings Limited 30 North Colonnade London E14 5GN Media Relations: Alyssa Castelli, New York, Tel: +1 (212) 908 0540, Email: alyssa.castelli@fitchratings.com; Peter Fitzpatrick, London, Tel: +44 20 3530 1103, Email: peter.fitzpatrick@fitchratings.com; Hannah James, New York, Tel: + 1 646 582 4947, Email: hannah.james@fitchratings.com; Leslie Tan, Singapore, Tel: +65 67 96 7234, Email: leslie.tan@fitchratings.com. Additional information is available on www.fitchratings.com. Notes for Editors: Fitch's Economics team, led by Chief Economist Brian Coulton, analyses global macroeconomic trends and their impact on credit markets around the world. The team publishes global macroeconomic research, forecasts and commentary focusing on 20 major advanced and emerging economies. The Global Economic Outlook, the flagship publication of Fitch's Economics team, and other global economic research and commentary are available at www.fitchratings.com/sovereigns/economics ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: here IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS RELEVANT INTERESTS ARE AVAILABLE here FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE. Copyright © 2017 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch’s factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch’s ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed. The information in this report is provided “as is” without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers. For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001