(The following statement was released by the rating agency) HONG KONG/LONDON, November 30 (Fitch) Nigeria's 2018 budget aims to narrow the government deficit, but revenues are still highly dependent on oil, and non-oil revenues are likely to fall short of the budget projections, Fitch Ratings says. President Muhammadu Buhari presented the budget to parliament on 7 November. The "Budget for Consolidation" sees the Federal Government of Nigeria's (FGN) fiscal deficit narrowing to 1.7% of GDP in 2018, from the 2.8% that Fitch expects for 2017. We expect rising oil revenues to aid consolidation, but forecast the FGN deficit to narrow less, to 2.4% of GDP. The key to achieving the envisaged deficit reduction is fully realising revenue forecasts, but this has proved challenging in the past. Nigeria's overall revenue/GDP ratio is among the lowest of Fitch-rated sovereigns. We expect that overall revenue will continue to increase in 2017 and 2018 as oil production increases and the economy recovers from recession, but more slowly than budget forecasts envisage. The budget speech reported that revenue collection was 14% below target as of September 2017, which would be a significant improvement over 2016, when net distributable revenue was 36% below budget forecasts. Tax revenue growth is likely to have accelerated in 2H17 with faster economic growth, which rose to 1.4% in the third quarter, but is still unlikely to meet budget targets. The prospectus for Nigeria's recent Eurobond offering shows that, at end-June 2017, total revenue for 1H17 was just over 30% lower than the 2017 budget forecast. Fitch's forecast for 2017 GDP growth is 1.5%. Boosting non-oil revenue is a key pillar in the government's reform agenda, but the structural changes needed to improve tax compliance will only progress slowly. One-off increases in independent revenues and the recovery of stolen funds may help, but these brought in significantly less revenue than projected in the previous two budgets. The 2018 budget assumes NGN2.4 trillion (USD6.7 billion) in FGN retained oil revenue, based on a budgeted oil price of USD45 per barrel. This is well below Fitch's forecast that Brent crude will average USD52.5 per barrel in 2018, but the budget's production assumption of 2.3 million barrels per day (mbpd) is optimistic. It would represent a six-year production high and a meaningful and sustained increase on current levels of around 2.0 mbpd. Improvements in security and oil infrastructure have boosted production in the last 18 months, but insurgent activity in the Niger Delta, sabotage and theft are risks to production forecasts. Meanwhile, reforms to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation will take time to substantially increase production. Higher revenue is key to deficit reduction. Spending has typically been lower than budgeted, but improved financing conditions should support stronger execution of capital expenditure plans in 2018. President Buhari stated that rapid approval of the 2018 budget would help ensure "a more predictable budget cycle that runs from January to December" and avoid a repeat of the delays in approving last year's budget. Legislators seeking more spending in their respective states will remain an obstacle to a smooth budgeting cycle ahead of the next general election in 2019. The budget does not contain official consolidated deficit forecasts. We forecast the consolidated government deficit to narrow by 0.5pp of GDP to approximately 4.0% in 2018, broadly in line with the narrowing FGN deficit. Nigeria's general government debt stock is low relative to GDP but rising, and low revenues and the fragility of the economic recovery represent risks to public debt sustainability. This is reflected in the Negative Outlook on the country's 'B+' sovereign rating, which we affirmed on 31 August. Contact: Jermaine Leonard Director, Sovereigns +852 2263 9830 Fitch (Hong Kong) Limited 68 Des Voeux Road Central Hong Kong Jan Friederich Senior Director, Sovereigns +852 2263 9910 Mark Brown Senior Analyst, Fitch Wire +44 20 3530 1588 Media Relations: Peter Fitzpatrick, London, Tel: +44 20 3530 1103, Email: peter.fitzpatrick@fitchratings.com. The above article originally appeared as a post on the Fitch Wire credit market commentary page. The original article can be accessed at www.fitchratings.com. All opinions expressed are those of Fitch Ratings. ALL FITCH CREDIT RATINGS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS. PLEASE READ THESE LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS BY FOLLOWING THIS LINK: here IN ADDITION, RATING DEFINITIONS AND THE TERMS OF USE OF SUCH RATINGS ARE AVAILABLE ON THE AGENCY'S PUBLIC WEB SITE AT WWW.FITCHRATINGS.COM. PUBLISHED RATINGS, CRITERIA, AND METHODOLOGIES ARE AVAILABLE FROM THIS SITE AT ALL TIMES. FITCH'S CODE OF CONDUCT, CONFIDENTIALITY, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, AFFILIATE FIREWALL, COMPLIANCE, AND OTHER RELEVANT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ARE ALSO AVAILABLE FROM THE CODE OF CONDUCT SECTION OF THIS SITE. DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS RELEVANT INTERESTS ARE AVAILABLE here FITCH MAY HAVE PROVIDED ANOTHER PERMISSIBLE SERVICE TO THE RATED ENTITY OR ITS RELATED THIRD PARTIES. DETAILS OF THIS SERVICE FOR RATINGS FOR WHICH THE LEAD ANALYST IS BASED IN AN EU-REGISTERED ENTITY CAN BE FOUND ON THE ENTITY SUMMARY PAGE FOR THIS ISSUER ON THE FITCH WEBSITE. Copyright © 2017 by Fitch Ratings, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 33 Whitehall Street, NY, NY 10004. Telephone: 1-800-753-4824, (212) 908-0500. Fax: (212) 480-4435. Reproduction or retransmission in whole or in part is prohibited except by permission. All rights reserved. In issuing and maintaining its ratings and in making other reports (including forecast information), Fitch relies on factual information it receives from issuers and underwriters and from other sources Fitch believes to be credible. Fitch conducts a reasonable investigation of the factual information relied upon by it in accordance with its ratings methodology, and obtains reasonable verification of that information from independent sources, to the extent such sources are available for a given security or in a given jurisdiction. The manner of Fitch’s factual investigation and the scope of the third-party verification it obtains will vary depending on the nature of the rated security and its issuer, the requirements and practices in the jurisdiction in which the rated security is offered and sold and/or the issuer is located, the availability and nature of relevant public information, access to the management of the issuer and its advisers, the availability of pre-existing third-party verifications such as audit reports, agreed-upon procedures letters, appraisals, actuarial reports, engineering reports, legal opinions and other reports provided by third parties, the availability of independent and competent third- party verification sources with respect to the particular security or in the particular jurisdiction of the issuer, and a variety of other factors. Users of Fitch’s ratings and reports should understand that neither an enhanced factual investigation nor any third-party verification can ensure that all of the information Fitch relies on in connection with a rating or a report will be accurate and complete. Ultimately, the issuer and its advisers are responsible for the accuracy of the information they provide to Fitch and to the market in offering documents and other reports. In issuing its ratings and its reports, Fitch must rely on the work of experts, including independent auditors with respect to financial statements and attorneys with respect to legal and tax matters. Further, ratings and forecasts of financial and other information are inherently forward-looking and embody assumptions and predictions about future events that by their nature cannot be verified as facts. As a result, despite any verification of current facts, ratings and forecasts can be affected by future events or conditions that were not anticipated at the time a rating or forecast was issued or affirmed. The information in this report is provided “as is” without any representation or warranty of any kind, and Fitch does not represent or warrant that the report or any of its contents will meet any of the requirements of a recipient of the report. A Fitch rating is an opinion as to the creditworthiness of a security. This opinion and reports made by Fitch are based on established criteria and methodologies that Fitch is continuously evaluating and updating. Therefore, ratings and reports are the collective work product of Fitch and no individual, or group of individuals, is solely responsible for a rating or a report. The rating does not address the risk of loss due to risks other than credit risk, unless such risk is specifically mentioned. Fitch is not engaged in the offer or sale of any security. All Fitch reports have shared authorship. Individuals identified in a Fitch report were involved in, but are not solely responsible for, the opinions stated therein. The individuals are named for contact purposes only. A report providing a Fitch rating is neither a prospectus nor a substitute for the information assembled, verified and presented to investors by the issuer and its agents in connection with the sale of the securities. Ratings may be changed or withdrawn at any time for any reason in the sole discretion of Fitch. Fitch does not provide investment advice of any sort. Ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold any security. Ratings do not comment on the adequacy of market price, the suitability of any security for a particular investor, or the tax-exempt nature or taxability of payments made in respect to any security. Fitch receives fees from issuers, insurers, guarantors, other obligors, and underwriters for rating securities. Such fees generally vary from US$1,000 to US$750,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent) per issue. In certain cases, Fitch will rate all or a number of issues issued by a particular issuer, or insured or guaranteed by a particular insurer or guarantor, for a single annual fee. Such fees are expected to vary from US$10,000 to US$1,500,000 (or the applicable currency equivalent). The assignment, publication, or dissemination of a rating by Fitch shall not constitute a consent by Fitch to use its name as an expert in connection with any registration statement filed under the United States securities laws, the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom, or the securities laws of any particular jurisdiction. Due to the relative efficiency of electronic publishing and distribution, Fitch research may be available to electronic subscribers up to three days earlier than to print subscribers. For Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and South Korea only: Fitch Australia Pty Ltd holds an Australian financial services license (AFS license no. 337123) which authorizes it to provide credit ratings to wholesale clients only. Credit ratings information published by Fitch is not intended to be used by persons who are retail clients within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001