(Adds company news items and futures) Aug 2 (Reuters) - Britain’s FTSE 100 index is seen opening down 26 points at 7,627 points on Thursday, according to financial bookmakers, with futures down 0.14 percent ahead of the cash market open. * ROLLS-ROYCE: British engine-maker Rolls-Royce said that its 2018 results would come in at the upper half of its guidance range, after its civil aerospace and power systems businesses posted a stronger than expected first-half performance. * LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE: London Stock Exchange Group said on Thursday it was activating contingency plans in case Britain crashes out of the European Union next March without a transition deal. * BARCLAYS: Barclays second quarter pretax profits have almost trebled compared with a year ago, the lender said on Thursday, beating analysts’ expectations as it avoided the heavy restructuring and legal costs that blighted past results. * COUNTRYWIDE: Countrywide Plc is raising 140 million pounds ($183.44 million) from an equity sale to cut debt as the British estate agent posted a 61.5 percent fall in half-year core earnings, in line with its expectations. * MITCHELLS & BUTLERS: Mitchells & Butlers Plc’s quarterly comparable sales growth came in just under 1 percent, as the pub operator’s food sales dropped. * SERCO: British outsourcing company Serco met first-half profit expectations on Thursday and kept its 2018 guidance while highlighting a focus on foreign contracts and cost-cutting to compensate for a “hiatus” in UK public outsourcing. * VIVO ENERGY: Vivo Energy, Vitol’s Africa venture, reported an 8 percent rise in half-year core profit thanks to higher volumes, in its first set of results since it listed in May. * MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS: Madame Tussauds-owner Merlin Entertainments said on Thursday it was too early to tell whether visits to its London attractions were recovering after the impact of last year’s militant attacks in Britain. * AVIVA: Multi-line insurer Aviva on Thursday posted a 2 percent dip in first-half operating profit, hit by the impact of divestments, weaker profits in Canada and a significant increase in weather related claims. * CENTAMIN: Centamin Plc’s quarterly core earnings and revenue dropped as production fell and costs increased, the Egypt-focused gold miner said on Thursday. * INMARSAT: Inmarsat plc, the British satellite operator that rebuffed an approach from EchoStar last month, reported a 5 percent rise in second-quarter revenue and said it was well placed to continue to grow. * RANDGOLD RESOURCES: Mali’s government has granted Randgold Resources a 50 percent corporate tax reduction for the next four years at its Gounkoto mine, the Africa-focused gold miner said on Wednesday. * GOLD: Gold prices rose on Thursday, recovering from the previous session’s fall as the U.S. dollar edged lower against the Japanese yen. * OIL: Oil prices rose on Thursday, steadying after losses over the past two days from a surprise increase in U.S. crude inventories and renewed concerns over trade friction between the U.S. and China. * EX-DIVS: Micro Focus, Relx and Unilever will trade without entitlement to their latest dividend pay-out on Thursday, trimming 2.74 points off the FTSE 100 according to Reuters calculations * The UK blue chip index closed 1.2 percent lower at 7,652.91 on Wednesday, as mining and materials shares sold off on a slide in metals prices after the Trump administration threatened further tariffs on China. * For more on the factors affecting European stocks, please click on: cpurl://apps.cp./cms/?pageId=livemarkets > Financial Times > Other business headlines Multimedia versions of Reuters Top News are now available for: * For Top News : http://topnews.reuters.com (Reporting by Shashwat Awasthi in Bengaluru)