(Adds news items, futures) Aug 30 (Reuters) - Britain’s FTSE 100 index is seen opening 11 points lower at 7,553 on Thursday, according to financial bookmakers, with futures down 0.15 percent ahead of the cash market open. * SSE/NPOWER: Britain’s competition regulator on Thursday approved the merger between the retail power units of energy companies SSE and Innogy’s Npower. * HAYS: British recruitment company Hays Plc on Thursday declared a special dividend and boosted its full-year dividend by 18 percent, as it reported higher annual profit thanks to stronger growth in Germany, Australia and the United Kingdom. * HUNTING: Oilfield services provider Hunting Plc on Thursday reinstated its dividend and reported a profit for the first half of 2018, as it saw stronger demand on the back of rising crude prices. * CHESNARA: Pension and life insurance administrator Chesnara Plc’s profit before tax halved year-on-year in the six months to June, the company said on Thursday, saying its Scildon business had been hurt by losses on Italian bonds. * SKY: Activist hedge fund Elliott believes Walt Disney’s deal to buy assets from Twenty-First Century Fox has valued Sky at more than $34 billion, higher than any of the current offers for the British broadcaster, Britain’s takeover regulator disclosed on Wednesday. * ASTRAZENECA: The U.S. Food and Drug Administration said on Wednesday a serious genital infection has been reported in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors, a certain class of diabetes drugs approved for AstraZeneca Plc and several other firms. * GULF KEYSTONE PETROLEUM: Activist hedge fund Taconic Capital Advisors said on Wednesday that it would sell a 3.55 percent stake in Iraq-based oil producer Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. * EX-DIVS: Intercontinental Hotel Group, St James’s Place will trade without entitlement to their latest dividend pay-out on Thursday, trimming 0.58 points off the FTSE 100 according to Reuters calculations. * The UK blue chip index closed down 0.7 percent at 7,563.21 points on Wednesday, under pressure from a bounce in the pound on the back of remarks from the European Union’s chief negotiator Michel Barnier, who offered Britain close ties after Brexit. * For more on the factors affecting European stocks, please click on: cpurl://apps.cp./cms/?pageId=livemarkets Multimedia versions of Reuters Top News are now available for: * For Top News : http://topnews.reuters.com (Reporting by Justin George Varghese and Shashwat Awasthi)