(Corrects quote in para 6 to read tax “cuts” not “hikes”) * Stocks off high but keep gains as Dems win House * Election outcomes in line with market expectations * Trade worries likely to remain despite Democrats’ win By Hideyuki Sano TOKYO, Nov 7 (Reuters) - Wall Street stock futures and Asian shares held earlier gains on Wednesday after Democrats won control of the U.S. House of Representatives, boosting the party’s ability to block President Donald Trump’s political and economic agenda. The Democrats’ House win creates a clear hurdle for Republicans to easily pass legislation through both chambers of Congress, clouding the outlook for some of Trump’s key economic proposals. In Asian trade, major broadcasters projected the Democrats would wrest House control, while the Republicans were seen retaining the Senate. While both outcomes were broadly in line with market expectations, a reason markets did not sell off, the prospect of political gridlock creates some uncertainty for investors. The dollar weakened against most of its major counterparts. In equities markets, U.S. S&P500 futures rose 0.3 percent, MSCI’s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan rose 0.3 percent and Japan’s Nikkei gained 1.2 percent. “It has clearly become difficult for Republicans to pass additional tax cuts or amendments to Dodd-Frank regulations (on financial institutions) for instance,” said Tomoaki Shishido, fixed income analyst at Nomura Securities. Investor sentiment had been volatile in Asian trade with stocks and the dollar swinging on the Republicans’ fluctuating prospects of retaining the House. While a split Congress would put a brake on Trump’s agenda, such as tax cuts or deregulation, some investors think the Democrats may agree to more spending. “There are still areas with compromise for spending, so even with a split government I expect more fiscal stimulus ahead. There is some possibility for compromise on infrastructure spending as well,” said Steve Friedman, New York-based senior economist at BNP Paribas Asset Management. “If there is additional fiscal stimulus, it suggests that fiscal policy is more of a tailwind for U.S. growth and it should, all things equal, be supportive for stocks.” On the other hand, many investors also expect Trump to continue to take a hard line on tariffs, which he can impose without Congressional approval. That keeps alive worries about a trade war between China and the United States. Trump’s massive tax cut, enacted in December, and a spending agreement reached in February have helped lift the U.S. economy, but they have also widened U.S. federal budget deficit. As a result, Treasury supply has been growing, pushing U.S. bond yields higher. The election results pushed down the 10-year U.S. Treasuries yield about 2 basis points to 3.193 percent, off its seven-year high of 3.261 percent touched a month ago. But the debt market also remains under pressure from this week’s record volumes of longer-dated government debt supply. Oil prices were soft after a 2 percent fall the previous day, with U.S. crude futures hitting an eight-month low as Washington granted sanction waivers to top buyers of Iranian oil and as Iran said it has so far been able to sell as much oil as it needs to. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures traded 0.5 percent lower at $61.91 a barrel having hit a low of $61.31 on Tuesday, the weakest price since March 16. In the currency market, the dollar dipped on the U.S. election results. Against the yen, it was 0.2 percent lower at 113.23, reversing earlier gains to one-month high of 113.82 yen. The euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.1467 and the British pound gained 0.3 percent to $1.3140, hitting a three-week high. Sterling extended gains made the previous day on hopes of a Brexit deal breakthrough after Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab said “Thumbs Up” on his way out of a cabinet meeting. That helped sterling recover losses following remarks from a senior member of the Northern Irish Democratic Unionist Party earlier that it looked like Britain would exit the EU without a deal. (Reporting by Hideyuki Sano in Tokyo; additional reporting by Daniel Leussink in Tokyo and Daniel Bases in New York; Editing by Sam Holmes)