(Removes extraneous word from paragraph 6) * Nikkei up 0.6 percent, Topix adds 0.15 percent * Companies seen benefiting from Osaka’s hosting of Expo rise * Oil-related stocks retreat amid slumping crude oil prices By Shinichi Saoshiro TOKYO, Nov 26 (Reuters) - Japanese shares edged up on Monday, taking Wall Street losses in stride while stocks seen benefiting from an upcoming World Expo advanced. The Nikkei share average added 0.6 percent to 21,780.72, headed for its second session of gains. The broader Topix was up 0.15 percent at 1,631.34. “The domestic equity market has shown some resilience recently, shaking off some of the correlation with Wall Street,” said Takashi Hiroki, chief strategist at Monex Securities. “Market focus is shifting towards factors linked to domestic demand, with the latest example being Osaka’s hosting of the World Expo.” The western Japanese city of Osaka won the bid to host the 2025 World Expo at the weekend. Shares of companies with ties to the Osaka region gained, with the World Expo seen providing a significant economic boost. Keihan Holdings, which operates railways in the Osaka region, gained 0.65 percent. Fellow railway operator Nankai Electric Railway Co advanced 3.55 percent. Kamigumi Co, a provider of logistics services in the region, added 3 percent. Construction companies based in Western Japan also rose, with Zenitaka Corp up 1.4 percent and Okumura Corp advancing 1.8 percent. The Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) construction sub-index climbed 0.7 percent. Alps Electric climbed 5.4 percent after the electronic component maker announced that it will buy back 40 billion yen ($354 million) of its own shares following a planned merger with Alpine Electronics Inc in January 2019. Daikin Industries Ltd rose 2 percent after the air conditioning equipment maker said it plans to buy Austria-based AHT Cooling Systems. Petroleum product majors Inpex Corp and JXTG Holdings Inc declined 3.5 percent and 2.8 percent, respectively, hurt by crude oil prices slumping to 13-month lows. The TSE oil and coal sub-index fell 2.2 percent. ($1 = 112.91 yen) (Reporting by Shinichi Saoshiro, editing by Eric Meijer)