(Adds company news items and futures) Jan 28 (Reuters) - Britain’s FTSE 100 index is seen opening 22 points lower at 6,787 on Monday, according to financial bookmakers, with FTSE 100 futures down 0.36 percent ahead of the cash market open. * PARAGON BANKING: Paragon Banking Group reported a slight increase in common equity tier 1 ratio - a closely watched measure of balance sheet strength - and a jump in new lending during the first quarter as demand from professional landlords surged. * STHREE: Recruiter SThree Plc posted a 20 percent rise in full-year pretax profit on Monday as strong international hiring offset declines in Britain. * FLYBE: Flybe Group plc confirmed on Monday its largest shareholder has urged the airline to remove Chairman Simon Laffin and investigate the company’s cut-price sale to a consortium. * Tesco: Tesco, Britain’s biggest supermarket chain, may cut thousands of jobs by closing in-store meat, fish and delicatessen counters and by replacing staff canteens with vending machines, the Mail on Sunday newspaper reported, citing industry sources. * VODAFONE: Vodafone, the world’s second-largest mobile operator, said it was “pausing” the deployment of Huawei equipment in its core networks until Western governments give the Chinese firm full security clearance. * ROYAL DUTCH SHELL: The United Steelworkers union said on Friday Shell Oil Co is delaying progress on important issues in negotiations for a new national agreement covering 30,000 U.S. refinery and chemical workers, according to sources familiar with the talks. * GOLD: Gold prices held steady on Monday, near a seven-month peak scaled in previous session, on hopes the U.S. Federal Reserve will keep interest rates unchanged during its two-day policy meeting later in the week. * OIL: Oil prices fell on Monday after U.S. energy firms added rigs for the first time this year in a sign that crude production there may rise further, and as China, the world’s second-largest oil user, reported additional signs of an economic slowdown. * The UK blue chip index closed 0.14 percent down at 6809.22 on Friday, as Vodafone tumbled and a stronger pound weighed on exporter stocks. * For more on the factors affecting European stocks, please click on > Financial Times > Other business headlines Multimedia versions of Reuters Top News are now available for: * 3000 Xtra : visit http://topnews.session.rservices.com * For Top News : http://topnews.reuters.com (Reporting by Adil Bhat in Bengaluru)