(Adds company news items and futures) April 29 (Reuters) - Britain’s FTSE 100 index is seen opening up 11 points higher at 7,439 on Monday, according to financial bookmakers, while FTSE 100 futures were up 0.12 percent ahead of the cash market open. * TESCO: Tesco, Britain’s biggest retailer, said on Monday a new accounting standard related to the treatment of leases would have increased its operating profit and margin in the last financial year, while decreasing pretax profit and earnings per share. * FERREXPO: Deloitte had repeatedly requested for an investigation into discrepancies at Ferrexpo Plc’s charity partner in Ukraine, according to a statement from the iron ore miner’s former auditor. * NON-STANDARD FINANCE: British sub-prime lender Non-Standard Finance (NSF) said on Monday it had set May 15 as the new closing date for its hostile offer to buy bigger rival Provident Financial and the last date on which the bid can be declared unconditional for acceptances. * SSE: British energy company SSE Plc has approached companies including broadband provider TalkTalk Telecom Group about a deal to sell its household supply unit, Sky News reported on Saturday. * GOLD: Gold steadied on Monday, trading near a more than one-week high touched in the previous session, on increased bets that the U.S. Federal Reserve might cut interest rate this year after a recent data showed inflationary weakness. * OIL: Oil prices fell on Monday, extending a slump from Friday that ended weeks of rallying, after President Donald Trump demanded that producer club OPEC raise output to soften the impact of U.S. sanctions against Iran. * The UK blue chip index ended 0.1 percent lower on Friday as Glencore shares fell on news of another U.S. investigation, oil majors tumbled and earnings reports knocked RBS and Just Eat, while Ferrexpo tanked after its auditor quit amid an accounting probe. * For more on the factors affecting European stocks, please click on: > Financial Times > Other business headlines (Reporting by Tanishaa Nadkar in Bengaluru)