SINGAPORE, Sept 17 (Reuters) - Industrial metals fell on Tuesday after top consumer China released a slew of weak economic data that raised concerns about demand from the world’s second-largest economy. Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange (LME) fell 0.3% to $5,851 a tonne by 0226 GMT, while the most-traded copper contract on the Shanghai Futures Exchange (ShFE) declined 0.7% to 47,340 yuan ($6,690.13) a tonne. China’s industrial production grew at the weakest pace in 17-1/2 years last month and fixed-asset investment in January-August increased at a slightly lower rate than expected, data released on Monday showed. LME nickel fell 2.1%, zinc declined 0.9%, lead dipped 0.3% and tin was 0.9% lower. In Shanghai, aluminium fell 0.9%, nickel dropped 3%, zinc lost 1.1% and lead declined 2.3%. * TRADE TALKS: Deputy-level U.S.-China trade talks are scheduled to start in Washington on Thursday, the U.S. Trade Representative’s office said, paving the way for high-level talks in October aimed at resolving a bitter trade war. * LEAD: Belgium’s Nyrstar has temporarily reopened an old lead processing plant in the state of South Australia after receiving a permit from the state’s environmental protection authority, it said on Monday. * NICKEL PHILIPPINES: A nickel mining hub in the southern Philippines, which produces mostly high-grade material, has suspended extraction operations indefinitely as the regional government conducts an industry audit. * For the top stories in metals and other news, click or * Oil futures shed some of their massive gains as the United States flagged the possible release of crude reserves, but the threat of military action over the attacks on Saudi oil facilities kept prices elevated and stocks under pressure. 0900 Germany ZEW Economic Sentiment Sept 0900 Germany ZEW Current Conditions Sept 1315 US Industrial Production MM Aug — US U.S. Federal Reserve’s Federal Open Market Committee starts its two-day meeting on interest rates (to Sept. 18) Three month LME copper Most active ShFE copper Three month LME aluminium Most active ShFE aluminium Three month LME zinc Most active ShFE zinc Three month LME lead Most active ShFE lead Three month LME nickel Most active ShFE nickel Three month LME tin Most active ShFE tin ARBS ($1 = 7.0761 Chinese yuan) (Reporting by Mai Nguyen; Editing by Subhranshu Sahu)