(Adds futures, news items) Jan 14 (Reuters) - Britain’s FTSE 100 index is seen opening steady at 7,618 on Tuesday, according to financial bookmakers, with futures slightly up 0.1% ahead of the cash market open. * BOOHOO: Britain’s Boohoo reported robust trading in its Christmas trading period and upgraded its full-year guidance, marking the online fashion retailer as a festive winner that bucked a weak overall market. * MCBRIDE: McBride Plc said it expects annual adjusted profit to be 15% lower than the market view, hurt by weakness in Britain and the loss of revenue after the cleaning products maker decided to stop aerosol manufacture in the country. * PAGEGROUP: British recruiter PageGroup Plc reported a small drop in gross profit in the fourth quarter as it grappled with economic and political uncertainty in China, the UK and France, while a weaker pound also dented earnings. * TAYLOR WIMPEY: Taylor Wimpey reported a 22% jump in its order book as cheaper home loans and a government scheme to spur Britons to buy houses boosted demand, helping the British homebuilder overcome Brexit uncertainty. * SHELL: Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s 225,300 barrel-per-day (bpd) Norco, Louisiana, refinery was operating normally on Monday after severe weather disrupted electrical power supply on Saturday, said sources familiar with plant operations. * LEKOIL: Trading in shares of Nigerian oil company Lekoil was suspended on the London Stock Exchange on Monday when the company said it had discovered that an announced $184 million loan agreement with the Qatar Investment Authority (QIA) was fraudulent. * GOLD: Gold prices fell to their lowest in nearly two weeks on Tuesday as risk appetite was whetted by stronger-than-expected China economic data and the imminent signing of a preliminary U.S.-China trade deal. * OIL: Oil prices edged higher as investors focused on the signing of a preliminary trade deal between the United States and China, the world’s top oil consumers, and on expectations of a drawdown in U.S. crude oil inventories. * BANKS: International banks have called on the European Union to make its system for financial market access more transparent and predictable to avoid hurting markets and consumers. * London’s main stock index gained on Monday, in step with global peers, as investors took heart from the imminent signing of a Phase 1 U.S.-China trade deal, while hopes of further interest rate cuts by the Bank of England helped the midcaps outperform. > Financial Times > Other business headlines (Reporting by Rishika Chatterjee and Shanima A in Bengaluru)