Dec. 19 (UPI) -- UPS announced Tuesday it plans to pre-order 125 of Tesla's Semis -- the largest number of trucks any buyer has reserved. The electric trucks, which can go 500 miles on a single charge, will go into production in 2019, according to Tesla. The order will supplement the delivery service and logistics provider's fleet of trucks propelled by electricity, natural gas, propane and other non-traditional fuels, UPS said in a release. UPS currently has more than 8,500 alternative fuel vehicles in the world. "These groundbreaking electric tractors are poised to usher in a new era in improved safety, reduced environmental impact, and reduced cost of ownership," Juan Perez, UPS chief information and engineering officer, said in a statement. UPS plans to reduce its absolute greenhouse gas emissions by up to 12 percent by 2025, the company said. By 2020, UPS envisions that one in four new vehicles purchased annually will be an alternative fuel or advanced technology vehicle, which is an increase from 16 percent in 2016. By 2020, 40 percent of all ground fuel will come from non-conventional gasoline and diesel -- an increase from 19.6 percent in 2016, the company said. "For more than a century, UPS has led the industry in testing and implementing new technologies for more efficient fleet operations," Perez said. "We look forward to expanding further our commitment to fleet excellence with Tesla." The cheapest model of the truck is currently expected to cost $150,000. Previously, the largest truck order was 100 vehicles from Pepsi reserved last week. Others reserving cars are Walmart, fleet operator J.B. Hunt Transport Services and food-service distribution company Sysco. "Unlike other trucks, the Semi's cabin is designed specifically around the driver, featuring unobstructed stairs for easier entry and exit, full standing room inside and a centered driver position for optimal visibility," Tesla said in a release. "Megachargers, a new high-speed DC charging solution, will add about 400 miles in 30 minutes and can be installed at origin or destination points and along heavily trafficked routes, enabling recharging during loading, unloading, and driver breaks."