April 20 (UPI) -- The mainstream media have broadly accepted the justifications from the United States, France and Britain of humanitarian motivation for the retaliatory strikes against Bashar al-Assad's Syrian regime.Journalist Adam Johnson analyzed U.S. mainstream coverage and reported that: The airstrike proceeded without publication of proof that Syria was responsible for the alleged atrocity in Douma. Reports are emerging that cast doubt on the official narrative. Regardless, swift action was demanded and taken. Inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons are only now gaining access "to establish facts around the allegations of chemical weapons use in Douma." Strikes illegal under international lawAlongside claims for justification from the Trump administration, similar rhetoric featured in statements from French and British leaders. French President Emmanuel Macron claimed there was no doubt Syria was responsible for a chemical attack on civilians, in gross violation of international law. He said:British Prime Minister Theresa May agreed, saying, "We cannot allow the erosion of the international norm that prevents the use of these weapons." May identified the lack of consensus in the U.N. Security Council as a driving factor in the joint military action.The United Nations Charter contains a prohibition on the threat or use of force against another state. Exceptions to this rule of international law are tightly constrained: The British government has published a brief asserting the legality of the airstrike on Syria as an exercise of "humanitarian intervention" (effectively invoking the doctrine of the "Responsibility to Protect" or R2P, without explicitly mentioning it). The argument is that the U.K. and its allies were entitled to use force against Syria because: Yet the R2P doctrine does not establish a new legal basis for the use of force. It allows for the use of force as "humanitarian intervention" only within the provisions of Chapter VII of the Charter, in the case of grave international crimes. The Labor opposition in the U.K. has released its own legal opinion, sharply contradicting the government and asserting that the strikes were illegal.Illegal but legitimate?The allies responsible for this week's airstrike have not claimed explicit authorization under the Charter. Instead, their aim has been to establish the legitimacy of the strike. This approach was endorsed by the European Union and Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull.According to President Donald Trump: The Assad regime cannot be absolved of its brutality. Indeed, it is a fundamental objective of the post-second world war international legal order to save humanity from the "scourge of war" and promote human rights. And there can be little doubt that the international legal system is far from perfect, having failed to protect populations around the world from gross violations of humanitarian and human rights law.In Syria, hundreds of thousands have been killed over seven years of civil war, and millions are now refugees or internally displaced. The complexity of the conflict has seen monitors cease to estimate a death toll.However, efforts to establish an alternative foundation for military action, beyond what is currently legal, pose risks that must be grappled with.If states are permitted to determine when force is warranted, outside the existing legal framework, the legitimacy of that framework may be fatally undermined. How could any consistency of response be ensured? By what standard will states distinguish between benevolent and "rogue" regimes?Leader of the U.K. opposition, Jeremy Corbyn, challenged May on these grounds: It is relevant in this context that Saudi Arabia is a highly valued client of the British arms industry. According to War Child UK, total sales to the kingdom have topped $8.5 billion since the conflict in Yemen began. The U.K. has refused to support a proposed U.N. inquiry into allegations of Saudi war crimes in Yemen. Meanwhile, crimes against humanity and gross human rights violations are alleged against Myanmar, the Philippines and Israel, among other states, without attracting the kind of "humanitarian intervention" undertaken in Syria. Humanitarian intervention or regime changeJeremy Corbyn has made the case for diplomacy as the only reasonable way forward. Syria should not be a war theater in which the agendas of external actors take precedence, he argues.The United States has long envisaged regime change in Syria, and stepped up sponsorship of opposition groups since 2009. Robert Kennedy Jr. traced the history of U.S. intervention in Syria from the first CIA involvement in 1949. He argues that this is another oil war, and says of broader interventionism in the Middle East:Central to U.S. strategic thinking is the relationship between Syria and Iran. U.S. Ambassador to the U.N., Nikki Haley, seemed to say that a condition for U.S. withdrawal is that Iran cease to function as an ally of Syria. With the U.S. gaze so firmly fixed on Iran and Russia, the rationale for "humanitarian intervention" can and should be more firmly critiqued.Amy Maguire is a senior lecturer in international law and human rights and Jason von Meding is a senior lecturer in disaster risk reduction at the University of Newcastle.This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article.