Oct. 29 (UPI) -- A Honduran migrant who was part of a second caravan headed to the United States was killed in clashes with police over the weekend, officials said.Mexican authorities used tear gas in Cuidad Hidalgo Sunday to ward off the second group, which consists mostly of Honduran migrants, near the country's southern border with Guatemala. The man, Henry Diaz Reyes, died from a head wound. Mexican authorities said the migrants threw Molotov cocktails and used children as human shields.Mexican authorities denied killing the 26-year-old Reyes. Guatemalan authorities issued an 8:30 p.m. curfew for all businesses and banned the sale of alcohol, gasoline and other inflammable products to the migrants. Residents in Tecun Uman were urged to stay indoors and avoid interactions with the caravan.The first caravan, which includes about 4,000 people, on their journey to the United States border. They have been traveling by foot toward the United States for two weeks -- and are about 1,000 miles from the nearest border town, McAllen, Texas, where President Donald Trump said he would deploy military forces to block entry.Trump has threatened to cut off U.S. aid to countries that don't attempt to stop the caravans and has threatened to close the border to all Central American migrants. The first caravan started with more than 7,000 people. That number has been cut nearly in half. Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto encouraged the remaining migrants to stay in Chiapas or Oaxaca, offering shelter, medical attention, school and jobs.Some pregnant women, children and the elderly have elected to stay in Mexico. In total, 1,700 caravan members have applied for asylum in Mexico.A third caravan of about 200 migrants left San Salvador Sunday, The Washington Post reported. "Life isn't good here," Anderson Medina Abrego, 13, told the Post. "They are killing a lot of people. I live in Barrio 18 gang territory, so I can't even go to another area because they say they will kill me."Authorities said police were dispatched to protect the caravan from gangs.San Salvadorans have fled violence for several years. Last year, more than 50,000 migrants were detained at the U.S. border. By traveling with the caravan, the migrants are hoping for a safer trip."In a caravan, you are united. If something happens to you, someone will help you," Jessica Yamileth Zabaleta Guzman, who's traveling with her one-year-old son, told the Post.