Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Venezuelan drivers endured long lines to refuel at service stations in Caracas, amid reports of shortages that have hit several regions of the country.Venezuelans have reported "long lines in service stations in the east and west of the capital," El Nacional newspaper reported Friday, adding there was no official reason given for problems facing the country's gasoline supply. The newspaper posted images from Twitter users, who reported both lack of fuel in service stations in the capital and long lines in those that had fuel.The newspaper reported April 2 that the country's refining infrastructure is seriously deteriorated, based on an interview with Ivan Freites, whom it identified as one of the leaders of the country's oil workers union, Futpv. Of the state oil company PDVSA's refineries of Amuay, Cardon, El Palito, San Roque, Puerto La Cruz and Bajo Grande, Freitis said this spring the only one with "minimum conditions to remain operative was Amuay." Funds to increase production were not available, he added.In April, Venezuela was only processing about 300,000 barrels per day of oil in its refineries, or about 23 percent of its total capacity, and the grades being processed were heavier -- meaning gasoline and diesel had to be imported.Venezuela, a founding member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, has seen fuel shortages in previous months. The deterioration of Venezuelan infrastructure has affected its crude oil production capacity, and created concern that future supply disruptions could affect worldwide prices. A government news release in July said the country's energy officials were inspecting oil infrastructure installations to prepare for repair efforts, but did it not offer further details.Venezuela's September production was just under 1.2 million barrels per day, down 42,000 barrels per day from August. The country's output has declined from over 3 million barrels per day in the 1990s.The country's decline in production is largely a result of the loss of qualified personnel after former President Hugo Chavez responded to a strike by firing workers. After the strike began on Dec. 4, 2002, Chavez fired nearly 35 percent of the workforce, or over 12,760 individuals. The firings affected most highly trained executives. Venezuela is undergoing a political and economic crisis that has led to the migration of a sizable portion of its population. According to estimates by the United Nations, about 1.9 million people have left Venezuela since 2015 amid unemployment, political violence and as food and medicine shortages.Venezuela has the world's biggest crude oil reserves.