  The flurry of opinions following the Federal Reserve's decision  to hold interest rates near zero at its September meeting has  done little to provide clarity on future interest rate policy,  market watchers told CNBC on Monday.   In fact, the pronouncements are simply confusing the market, they  said.  "I think they're trying to be transparent — which you can't  argue against transparency — but there is such a thing as an  overload of information, and I think that's what a lot of  investors are getting right now," Robert Luna, Surevest Capital  Management CEO, told CNBC's "Power Lunch" on Monday.  Market watchers got another opinion to mull over on Monday  after Chicago Federal Reserve President Charles Evans said  in a speech the United States faces inflation and dollar  headwinds that may not subside until the middle of next year. He  said the Fed could help the country navigate those headwinds by  delaying a long-anticipated hike to the benchmark fed funds  rate until 2016.  Read More Fed's  Evans: Later rate hike better for economy  Earlier in the day, New York Fed President William Dudley said  the central bank's policymaking committee would likely raise  interest rates this year, perhaps as soon as its next meeting in  October. That comment echoed a speech by Fed Chair Janet Yellen last week,  during which she said it would likely be appropriate to raise  rates sometime this year.  Former Dallas Fed president, Richard Fisher told CNBC's "Closing Bell" that he  would put more weight on Dudley's comments than those of Charles  Evans.   "I pay a lot of attention to President Dudley. I think he  reflects more the line of the Board of Governors. It seemed to me  that speech indicated [the Fed] are still considering a move in  October or December," Fisher said.   Fisher added that Yellen's Thursday speech at the University  of Massachusetts Amherst indicated that the door for a rate hike was  still open.   "The data is moving in the right direction, unless they see  something that changes that direction, then as Dudley said today  they're likely to move either in October or December," he  said. "I know that [the Fed is] eager to start lift  off as soon as it's pragmatic for them to do so."  In her statement after the September meeting, Yellen said the  Federal Open Market Committee wanted to see further evidence of  labor market improvement and that inflation would move towards  the Fed's 2 percent target.  "People are very panicked. When they're hearing these types of  headlines, it's not giving them a lot of clarity, so in terms of  getting some long-term investor money back into this market, I  don't think that's going to do anything to give it a boost," Luna  said.  Investors want to play it safe in an environment in which Fed  members are sending mixed signals and walking back earlier  comments, O'Neil Securities Director Kenny Polcari said. "Safe at  the moment is to raise some cash," he told "Power Lunch."   Stephen Guilfoyle, director of NYSE floor operations for Deep  Value, noted that investors were moving into safe haven Treasurys  and out of every equity sector, including utilities. "Usually  they move well with Treasurys here, so right now you're seeing  some people protect their money."  Read MoreFed just threw kerosene  on the fire: RBC Strategist  Investors are focusing on "every little bit of data" available  because the Fed continues to say that its decision to hike rates  remains data-dependent, Kate Warne, investment strategist at  Edward Jones told "Power Lunch." That mantra, combined with the  differing views from Fed officials, is not giving investors  confidence.  "I think the Fed needs to do a better job of communicating what  it's really planning to do as opposed to all the various  options that different people think it might take," she  said.