When we go home tonight to fix up supper or read a good book, we  may take for granted our ability to generate heat and light with  the simple flick of a switch.   In some parts of the world, however, lack of access to  affordable, clean and reliable energy is a serious problem.  According to the International Energy Agency, 1.2 billion  people around the world do not have access to electricity, while  over 2.7 billion people live without clean cooking  facilities.   In Africa, the lives of many people are made harder by a lack of  access to reliable sources of power.   "The situation in Africa at the moment is quite significant, over  40 percent of the population does not have direct access to  energy," Ponmile Osibo, from the African Private Equity and  Venture Capital Association, told CNBC's Energy Future.   Many people living off-grid use kerosene lamps for cooking and  lighting. While this can be cheap, the environmental and health  hazards are considerable.   "Kerosene contributes three percent to global CO2 emissions,  which is not an insignificant number, and produces indoor fumes,  which has been shown to cause 600,000 preventable deaths on a  yearly basis in Africa alone," Osibo said.   One piece of kit looking to push kerosene out of people's homes  is the GravityLight. "GravityLight was invented by two  designers looking for a safe alternative to kerosene lamps, which  are used by over a billion people without electricity," Caroline  Angus, co-founder of the GravityLight Foundation, said.   The cost of the GravityLight will depend on whether it is sold in  the developing or developed world. In the U.K., for example, it  is set to sell for £49 ($63), while in Kenya it will cost  roughly 2,500 shillings ($24.70). Once a user has set it up, it  costs nothing to run.  "Gravity Light is an off-grid light. It's powered by just lifting  a weight, so you fill a bag with rocks or sand and winch up the  weight, and as it gradually falls, it will turn a gear box which  generates power," Angus added.   For one villager, the Gravity Light has the potential to be  life-changing. "This light will benefit me and my children, they  will be able to read well, food will be cooked well in the  evening, and the whole house will be well lit," they said.   Gravity Light is just one of many new ideas that are looking to  help off-grid communities reliant on harmful, outdated energy  sources. Other examples include pay-as-you-go solar energy  companies and rollable solar arrays that can be deployed very  quickly.   "The need for light is universal," Angus said. "Given there are  solutions out there that can replace a kerosene lamp… we  need to urgently get those out there," she added. 