Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need. If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue. However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA Today's newsroom and any business incentives. 'Twas the week before Christmas… and you still need to buy gifts? Not a problem. With only 7 days left until the main event, it's not time to panic (yet). There's still time to shop. You don't even have to surrender to long lines at your local mall and full price products. That's because you can still order gifts online that will arrive before the holiday—and Amazon still has some great last-minute deals. More from USA Today:Santa comforts grieving mom by taking touching photo with son's teddy bearHoliday gifts that do more than just charge your devices10 gifts under $100 for the tech lover on your list Right now, Amazon's best devices are still on sale, starting at $29.99. But those aren't the only great deals they're featuring right now. Here are some deals we love today that the people you're shopping for will love too. 1. The best countertop spiralizer for those who love eating healthy This was one of our top picks for the best spiralizers of 2017. I happen to own it myself, and it's come in handy many times while making zucchini noodles and sweet potato pasta. I am definitely a veggie noodle enthusiast and recommend this spiralizer to anyone who likes eating healthy. It will certainly save people a ton of money from buying pre-cut veggie noodles at the grocery store. And for $15, it's a great deal. I got this a few years ago when it cost over $50! Times have changed. Get the Paderno 3-Blade Vegetable Spiralizer for $15.02 (save $20.93) on Amazon 2. A great-value Acer PC & Microsoft Office 365 Bundle If you're looking to buy someone a good value laptop, the Acer Aspire E 15 is a safe bet. We tested this laptop back in 2016, and while it may not have the sleek design other laptops have, we found it was a great basic PC for a fantastic price. Now, the price is even better because it's on sale. This value pack comes with 1 year of Microsoft Office 365, too—a necessity for literally just about every human with a desk job. Get the Acer Aspire E 15 Notebook & Microsoft Office 365 Home (1-year subscription, 5 users) bundle for $347 (save $101.99) on Amazon 3. The awesome Fitbit Charge 2 I am currently testing fitness trackers for Reviewed and the Fitbit Charge 2 is one of my favorites so far. This is no surprise, as this Fitbit model is loved by thousands of people. With it, you can track your steps, calories burned, heart rate, food intake, and more. Give someone the gift of a healthy start to 2018. It's a fun way to stay fit! I promise. Get the Fitbit Charge 2 Heart Rate & Fitness Wristband for $129.95 (save $20) on Amazon 4. This best-selling aromatherapy essential oil diffuser This oil diffuser has 11,371 customer reviews on Amazon (you did not read that number wrong), giving it a 4.5 star rating. The people have spoken, and the people are obsessed with InnoGear's aromatherapy oil diffuser. This little gem helps humidify your living space, protecting you and your loved ones from germs and stuffy air. It even prevents dry and chapped skin during winter! I think I just convinced myself to buy this, brb. Get the InnoGear Upgraded 150ml Aromatherapy Essential Oil Diffuser for $19.95 (save $50.04) on Amazon 5. A new tent for those who love camping With over 1,000 reviews and an average of 4.5 stars, this tent is a must-have for camping. It fits 3 people, making a decent size, and it's under $30 right now—which is an unbelievable price. If you want to pair this tent with other camping gear as a gift, you're in luck. One of Amazon's deals of the day is 40% off camping gear. Shop the rest of those deals here. Get the Coleman Sundome 3 Person Tent for $27.66 (save $43.17) on Amazon