President Donald Trump praised Saudi Arabia's defense acquisitions before as he met with the nation's wealthy young crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, at the White House — and pushed for even more. "Saudi Arabia is a very wealthy nation, and they're going to give the United States some of that wealth, hopefully, in the form of jobs, in the form of the purchase of the finest military equipment anywhere in the world," Trump said Tuesday. Saudi Arabia's oil-rich monarchy is one of America's most important strategic partners in the Middle East and a significant patron of U.S. defense companies. "There's nobody that even comes close to us in terms of technology and the quality of the equipment, and Saudi Arabia appreciates that," Trump added. During the Oval Office talks, Trump touted a creation of 40,000 American jobs due to Saudi military sales. The president used several maps and charts of Saudi acquisitions to further make his point. The crown prince, likewise, added that last year's Saudi pledge of $200 billion in investments will rise to approximately $400 billion and that a 10-year window to implement the deal was already under way. Following his visit with Trump, the 32-year-old crown prince was due to meet with Defense Secretary James Mattis, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, CIA Director Mike Pompeo and National Security Advisor H.R. McMaster. After Washington engagements, the Saudi delegation is also slated to meet with defense industry giants Lockheed Martin and Boeing. In the past nine months alone, the U.S. has secured $54 billion in foreign military sales to Saudi Arabia. Here's a look at some of the U.S.-made weapons the Saudis are considering for purchase, according to several memos of proposed sales from the State Department and the Defense Security Cooperation Agency. The cost, quantity and time frame of delivery may change pending final negotiations. America's stalwart M1 Abrams, used in nearly every major U.S. conflict since its inception in 1980, serves as the main battle tank of the Army and Marines. At close to 70 tons, the mighty Abrams tank is among the heaviest in the world, but it makes up for its weight with terrifying firepower and impressive maneuverability. The estimated cost of associated equipment, training and logistical support is $1.15 billion. The principal contractor will be General Dynamics Land Systems in Sterling Heights, Michigan. The CH-47F Chinook is a dual rotor multimission helicopter used by the Army as well as international defense forces. Its primary missions are to transport troops, artillery and fuel. The estimated cost of related equipment, training and support is $3.51 billion. The prime contractors will be Boeing Military Aircraft Company in Ridley Park, Pennsylvania, and Honeywell Aerospace in Phoenix. The Littoral Combat Ship is the Navy's newest class of warship that is designed to be reconfigurable. The vessel has three main missions: surface warfare, mine countermeasures and anti-submarine warfare. The estimated cost of associated equipment, parts and logistical support is $11.25 billion. The principal contractor will be Lockheed Martin of Bethesda, Maryland. The most advanced missile system on the planet can hunt and blast incoming missiles right out of the sky from its truck-based launcher. The Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or THAAD, is a missile-defense system that uses kinetic energy to deliver "hit to kill" strikes to incoming ballistic threats. The estimated cost of equipment, services and logistical support is $15 billion. The principal contractor will be Lockheed Martin Space Systems in Dallas; Camden, Arkansas; Troy, Alabama; and Huntsville, Alabama; as well as Raytheon in Andover, Massachusetts. 