U.S. stocks rose on Tuesday as a rebound in tech shares offset lingering concerns over trade. The Dow Jones Industrial Average settled up 114 points as Apple and Exxon Mobil outperformed. The Dow also got a boost from Nike shares. The gained 0.4 percent as tech shares climbed, with energy shares also helping raise the index. The Nasdaq Composite advanced 0.6 percent as shares of some of the largest tech companies rose. Apple gained 2.5 percent, snapping a four-day losing streak, after analysts at UBS raised their price target to $250 from $215, citing the potential growth of the company's services business. Apple is holding a big event at its new headquarters on Wednesday, where it's expected to announce several new products. Netflix and Amazon also rose 2.2 percent and 2.5 percent, respectively, while Twitter jumped 1.2 percent. Overall, the S&P 500 tech sector rose 0.8 percent on Tuesday. But tech is still down 1.8 percent in September as social media companies like Facebook and Twitter face potentially increasing regulatory pressures. The major indexes traded lower earlier in the day as Wall Street fretted over global trade. China will seek to authorization from the World Trade Organization to slap sanctions on the United States as trade tensions between the two largest world economies grow. Last Friday, President Donald Trump said he was "ready to go" on hitting China with an additional $267 billion worth of tariffs. The U.S. administration had already previously announced that it would impose tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese goods. "That reignited trade fears," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at B. Riley FBR. "While we may get some good news from trade negotiations between the U.S. and Canada … it feels like we're going to get more bad news on China." Boeing fell as much as 1.3 percent before recovering to trade 1 percent higher. Caterpillar shares dropped as much as 1.2 percent but pared losses; it was last down 0.1 percent. Trade worries coupled with tech's recent decline have overshadowed strong economic data. The National Federation of Independent Business reported that small business optimism jumped to a record high last month, boosted by lower taxes and looser regulations. Nick Raich, CEO of The Earnings Scout, said the fears overshadowing the market "have been overblown as the benefits from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and less regulatory burdens have outweighed the negative impact(s) from rising interest rates, tariffs and weakness abroad." Tesla's stock dropped 3.7 percent after a Nomura analyst called the stock "no longer investable." Nike shares rose 1 percent after analysts at Canaccord Genuity upgraded them to buy from neutral. The analysts also said Nike's ad featuring former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick was a "stroke of genius." The S&P 500 energy sector rose 1.1 percent and was on track to snap a seven-session losing streak. Energy shares got a boost from a sharp rise in oil. U.S. crude surged 2.7 percent to $69.38 per barrel. 