Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.: "What a great company. $93 billion market cap company, run incredibly well. That's my kind of company for this environment." Arconic Inc.: "We're not arbitrageurs. Let's just take the profit and run, or even, frankly, let's just go, because we don't know how that deal's going to work out." Qualcomm Inc.: "I don't know, [the risk-reward is] $3 down, $10 up because you've got 5G coming. But the $3 down might be first." Qudian Inc.: "No. Don't buy. These companies come public, like, every day. The Chinese are bringing so many of their companies — I'm being hyperbolic — but very few of them actually work and this one I don't want you to touch." Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV: "That's the best of the automakers, but I don't really care for the automakers, so I'm going to say take some off the table. It's too hard a group." GameStop Corp.: "No, no. Too risky. Too risky. The only thing in that whole area that we like is Take-Two Interactive. The group is making a comeback. It's been brutal." Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc.: "I think this is one of those 'to each his own' [situations]. If you want a spec in that one, I'm not going to fight you. I don't fight against the specs in that area." Encana Corp.: "We've got to buy the highest-quality oils now because the patch is so dicey. Encana is not one of those." Weight Watchers Intl. Inc.: "Look, [CEO] Mindy Grossman's terrific, but they didn't make the quarter, so it's a show-me situation. I'm going to take a pass on it." BP PLC: "BP? Absolutely. They just raised the dividend. The cash flow's amazing. They're doing a lot of things right. It's absurdly valued, which is why the charitable trust is buying it right here." Disclosure: Cramer's charitable trust owns shares of BP. Questions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBC Want to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - Instagram - Vine Questions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com 