Check out the companies making headlines midday Thursday:Bloomin' Brands — Shares of the hospitality company jumped 8.95 percent on stronger-than-expected quarterly results. Bloomin' Brands posted earnings per share of 30 cents and revenue of $1.01 billion. Analysts polled by Refinitiv expected a profit of 26 cents a share on sales of $1.001 billion.Avon Products — The cosmetics maker's stock dropped 11 percent after Avon reported mixed results for the fourth quarter. Avon's profit of 7 cents a share was in line with a Refinitiv estimate. Sales of $1.402 billion missed expectations, however.MGM Resorts — Shares of MGM fell 6.36 percent after the casino and resort operator reported a diluted loss per share of 6 cents in the current quarter compared to diluted earnings per share of $2.39 in the prior year quarter. MGM's fourth-quarter earnings came in one cent above estimates. It also announced an eight percent dividend hike to 13 cents per share from 12 cents.American International Group — AIG's stock slid 9 percent after the insurance company posted an unexpected loss of 63 cents per share, after consensus forecasts had predicted a profit of 42 cents per share. Its results were hurt by weaker returns in the equity and credit markets.Marathon Oil — Shares of Marathon Oil surged 8.75 percent after the company reported better-than-expected earnings and revenues in the fourth quarter as its total oil production rose 17 percent year-over-year. The oil producer also sees oil output rising 10 percent in 2019.Six Flags Entertainment — The theme park operator sunk nearly 13 percent after the company missed Wall Street's revenue expectations for fourth-quarter. The quarterly results were mixed though — profit was still well-above consensus expectations. Sleep Number — Shares of mattress firm Sleep Number rose 14.7 percent Thursday after the company reported better-than-expected earnings and forecast a strong outlook for 2019. The Minneapolis-based company also reported a 13 percent increase in sales from a year ago.Tempur Sealy – Despite issuing an earnings outlook largely below Wall Street estimates, Tempur Sealy has erased its premarket losses, and was up 2.9 percent. The Kentucky-based firm also posted weaker-than-expected earnings, but it did deliver stronger quarterly sales numbers than analysts anticipated.Coca-Cola —Shares of Coca-Cola fell 8.44 percent after it released a disappointing growth forecast for 2019. The company reported that it has been battling currency headwinds which it claims hurt its fourth quarter earnings by 10 percent. Coke reported fourth-quarter earnings in line with estimates, and revenues that beat estimates by $22 million.Cisco Systems — Cisco System's stock rose 2.93 percent after its second-quarter results beat estimates on the top and bottom lines. The hardware company beat analyst estimates by a penny with an adjusted quarterly profit of 73 cents. It's growth in cyber security and applications software boosted its revenues. Cisco added $15 billion to its company stock buyback program and raised quarterly dividends by 6 percent.Amazon — Shares of Amazon fell 1 percent following the company's announcement that it will not build a headquarters in New York in response to a large opposition from state and local politicians.—CNBC's Nadine El-Bawab, Yun Li, JR Reed and Kate Rooney contributed to this report.