CNBC's Jim Cramer has circled Ulta Beauty's earnings report on his calendar next Thursday and the "Mad Money" host said he is bullish on the stock. "The look-your-selfie-best economy remains a major tailwind for Ulta and the stock has more upside," he said. Also in his game plan for the week ahead are quarterly results from Stitch Fix, Dick's Sporting Goods, Adobe and a number of other companies. Check out his game plan for the week ahead here Cramer said he has been negative on homebuilders stocks for some time, but now the group has gotten so cheap. The host pointed out that JP Morgan Chase's bearish look on the sector was based on the the past, while homebuilding analyst Ivy Zelman gave a positive outlook about the future. Stocks typically bottom before the underlying fundamentals, and investors might not want to wait and miss the move. Cramer explains why homebuilder stocks could be ready to rise here Planet Fitness and Weight Watchers' stocks for years have been boosted by healthy trends, but the latter is now carrying too much risk to recommend, Cramer said. The "image-obsessed culture" of selfies and Instagram make people feel "under a lot of pressure to look good," but shares of the nutrition company are going south while the low-cost fitness chain is maintaining its composure, he said. "I think you've got two parallel stories: Planet Fitness is an extremely well-run company with a fabulous brand and they know exactly what they're doing, while the new WW seems dazed and confused," the host said. Learn more about why one exercise stock is hot and the other is not here Shares of WD-40, the canned lubricant maker used that can be used for car and aircraft maintenance, are up 130 percent over the past five years. That beat the 's 45 percent run over the same period. CEO Garry Ridge told Cramer in a sit-down interview that the company is updating its smart straw that it first released in 2005. "We're about to launch next year a new version of smart straw, which is toolbox friendly as we call it," he said. "It's actually lockable [and] it's got a new organic delivery system." Catch the full interview here Cramer explained Thursday that six stocks could predict which direction the market could be heading next. The host said he saw action improving in those names and helped him understand Friday's rebound. Facebook, one of those stocks, bounced after a tough opening to close higher. Cramer said it could be a good sign for FANG stocks. Find out how Cramer's six picks performed and what they say about the future here In Cramer's lightning round, the "Mad Money" host sprinted through his reaction to callers' stock picks: Starwood Property Trust Inc.: "I like that. I like the yield. I like [CEO] Barry [Sternlicht]. I think it's a great one." Suncor Energy Inc.: "We are not going to recommend any house-of-pain stocks anymore and that's in that ... oil business." Aurora Cannabis Inc.: "Nope. We're sticking with Canopy. I liked Bruce Linton when he spoke yesterday." Disclosure: Cramer's charitable trust owns shares of Facebook. Questions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBC Want to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - Instagram Questions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com