The New York auto show typically attracts at least a few fast cars, which speak to the tastes of the city's wealthier car enthusiasts.This year, viewers can see everything from luxury supercars, high-end electrics, and special editions of favorites. Here is a list of some of the quickest and fastest rides debuting at the show, which opened to the public Friday and runs through April 28: The car is named after Jesko Von Koenigsegg, the father of founder and CEO Christian Von Koenigsegg. The Koenigsegg Jesko is not far behind the Bugatti in price, though. The Swedish supercar starts at about $2.8 million. It has a re-designed 5.0-liter twin-turbo V8 engine, which generates 1,280 horsepower on standard gasoline and 1,600 horsepower on high-grade ethanol. It's by far the fastest street-legal car at the show with a top speed of 300 miles per hour. The car comes with Koenigsegg's new 9-speed Light Speed Transmission and a new carbon fiber chassis that Koengisegg says gives more legroom, headroom and greater visibility. Bugatti will make only 20 units of this special edition of the Chiron Sport, which is meant to be a tribute to Bugatti's French homeland. The car is making its North American debut this week in New York City, after Bugatti first showed the car off at the auto show in Geneva, Switzerland last month. The base Chiron goes from 0 to 60 in 2.4 seconds with the top speed electronically limited at around 250 mph. The company has given no word on pricing, but a base Bugatti Chiron starts at around $3 million, and a Chiron Sport starts at almost $3.3 million, so this version could be as much as $4 million or more. The colors of the French flag adorn the side-view mirrors and the rear spoiler. The "110 Ans" stands for "110 years," the full history of the Bugatti name. This electric supercar has nearly 2,000 horsepower and hits 60 mph in just 1.85 seconds. Rimac, which started in a garage in Croatia, has been developing this car for three years with plans for it to be the company's first production model. It costs $2.1 million and production will be limited to 150 units. Top speed is 258 mph, and the company is developing special tires with Pirelli to handle it. The Porsche Speedster made its North American debut at the show, months after Porsche said it would begin production on a limited number of vehicles modeled on a concept Porsche had created for its 70th anniversary. The car has a six-cylinder engine that generates 502 horsepower. The car can go from 0 to 60 mph in 3.8 seconds, and the top track speed is 192 miles per hour. Porsche said the Speedster is expected to be available for order on May 7, 2019 and is expected to reach U.S. dealers in late 2019. BAC is a small British carmaker that wanted to make a car devoted solely to the experience of driving, creating what's essentially a street legal race car. The car has a single seat, no doors and no windshield. What drivers trade in convenience and luxury they get in performance. It can hit 60 mph in 2.8 seconds and tops out at 170 mph. The car is astonishingly light, owing to its mostly carbon fiber body, and its makers say it can perform exceedingly well on the track, besting far more famous supercars. Each vehicle is one-of-a-kind and starts at $230,000. Nissan has released a new version of its top-shelf GT-R, a $100,000 sports car that has gained a kind of cult status over the years, and has been featured in big-budget Fast and the Furious movie franchise. The newest version comes with 565 horsepower and hits 60 mph in 2.9 seconds with a top speed of about 196 mph. There is also a track-ready NISMO edition that generates 600 horsepower. It will be a big show for Mercedes-Benz's performance label AMG. The AMG CLA 35 sedan goes 0 to100 km in 4.9 seconds, which translates to 0 to 60 miles per hour in 4.6 seconds and has a top speed of about 155 miles per hour. The car is available as both a coupe and a sedan. The Mercedes-AMG GLC 63 4MATIC+ is a crossover coupe that goes 0 to 100 km/h in 4.0 seconds. Mercedes said the GLC is currently the fastest SUV in the world on the North Loop of the famed Nürburgring race track in Germany. The company has not released pricing for any of the new models yet. 