Check out the companies making headlines in midday trading.Uber— Shares of Uber tanked 9.9% after the ride-hailing company reported quarterly loss that topped $1 billion. Uber reported a net loss of $1.16 billion for the third quarter, topping its $986 million loss during the same quarter last year. The company beat estimates on the top and bottom lines however.Shake Shack— Shares of Shake Shack nosedived a whopping 20.6% after the fast food company reported disappointing same-store sales growth. Its same-store sales rose 2.0% in the third quarter, shy of the 2.5% growth analysts predicted. Shake Shack's earnings and revenue topped expectations however.Kroger— Shares of Kroger soared 11.4% after the company gave strong guidance for 2020. Kroger said at its investor day it sees full-year 2020 earnings per share between $2.30 and $2.40, while analyst expected earnings of $2.30 per share, according to Refinitiv.Tapestry— Shares of Tapestry rose 1.6% after it reported 40 cents per share for its third-quarter earnings, 3 cents above estimates, according to Refinitiv. Revenue was slightly below forecasts, but comparable-store sales were stronger than analysts had been forecast.Chemours— Shares of the chemical company soared 10.7% after reporting strong third-quarter results. Chemours reported sales of $1.4 billion, topping estimates of $1.37 billion, according to Refinitiv. Earnings per share came in line with estimates at 59 cents.World Wrestling Entertainment— Shares of World Wrestling Entertainment jumped 4.9% after the company announced its has expanded its partnership with Saudi General Entertainment Authority to include a second live event each year. The partnership goes through 2027.Chesapeake Energy— Shares of Chesapeake Energy plummeted 18% after the company said that if oil and natural gas prices remain low it has "substantial doubt" over whether it will be able to continue operations. The company reported a loss of 6 cents for the third quarter, which was ahead of the 10-cent loss analysts were expecting, although revenue and production numbers came up short.Regeneron Pharmaceuticals— Shares of the pharmaceutical company rose 6.9% after reporting strong third-quarter earnings. The company reported earnings of $6.67 per share on revenue of $2.048 billion. Analysts expected earnings of $6.36 per share on revenue of $1.986 billion, according to Refinitiv.Adobe— Shares of the cloud company jumped 4.3% after it gave strong full-year 2020 guidance. Adobe sees earnings per share of $9.75, compared to the $9.70 per share expected by analysts.Peloton— Shares of Peloton slid 7.6% after the fitness company posted its first earnings report since its IPO. Peloton reported a net loss of $49.8 million in the first fiscal quarter of 2020. This loss was less than analysts expected but the company's CEO said it could take time for the company to turn a profit. The company doubled its quarterly revenue to $228 million.Myriad Genetics— Shares of Myriad tanked 40.4% after the company missed on the top and bottom lines of its third-quarter earnings. Myriad also cut its 2020 earnings forecast because of billing codes.Xerox Holdings— Shares of Xerox jumped 4.9% when is said it will sell its 25% stake in Fuji Xerox, its joint venture with Fujifilm, for $2.3 billion.Groupon— Shares of Groupon fell 2% but closed the day flat after missing on the top and bottom lines of its third-quarter results. The company reported earnings of 1 cent per share, missing estimates of 3 cents per share, according to Refinitiv. Revenue came in at $496 million, well below the forecast $525 million.Newmont Goldcorp— Shares of Newmont Goldcorp dropped 3.5% following disappointing third-quarter earnings. The mining company reported earnings of 36 cents per share on revenue of $2.713 billion. Analysts estimated earnings of 39 cents per share on revenue of $2.852 billion, according to Refinitiv.Beyond Meat— Shares of the alternative meat company rose 2% following an upgrade to outperform from market perform from Bernstein. The firm said Beyond Meat's risk/reward "skewed towards the upside" as the company is getting through it IPO lock-up expiration.Boeing— Shares of Boeing jumped 2% after the company's CEO Dennis Muilenburg said he would forgo all bonuses this year in the wake of the 737 Max crashes.Mallinckrodt— Shares of the pharmaceutical company sunk 13.5% after missing analyst expectations for its third-quarter revenue. Mallinckrodt reported revenue of $743.7 million, much lower than the $770.8 million forecast on Wall Street, according to Refinitiv.—CNBC's Yun Li and Pippa Stevens contributed reporting.