CNBC's Jim Cramer flags that it's not the right moment for investors to get back in the market aggressively, despite positive trading on Monday. The "Mad Money" host unveils his ideal portfolio to hedge against conflict uncertainty and chances of higher tensions between the United States and Iran. Later in the show, the former hedge fund manager says it may be an ideal time to make a bet on Nordstrom. Stocks bounced back from Friday's sell-off, but it's not the opportune time for investors to jump back in the market at full force, CNBC's advised Monday. "The market's rebound today may not be as crazy as it looks. Every other time we've had major conflict under the Trump administration, it's been a buying opportunity," the "Mad Money" host said after observing the gain 0.24%, the expand 0.35% and the grow 0.56%. The major indexes, however, are all still within a percentage point of their Thursday closes, which preceded a U.S. airstrike that killed Iran's top general. The attack in Baghdad jolted Friday trading on Wall Street. "I'm still recommending proceeding with caution, at least until we get a clearer sense of Iran's next move," Cramer said. Cramer laid out a basket of investment plays to hedge against the growing conflict between the United States and Iran. "If we really get the conflagration that so many people seem to be expecting ... you have to be ready for the market to take a beating, at least in the short-term," he said, adding "if you think a genuine war with Iran is inevitable, you want cash, you want gold, utilities, oil, defense and cybersecurity." Investors might be wise to give another look after the holiday season, Cramer said. While the conventional wisdom might be negative toward the department store company, the host said a new report from top retail analyst Matthew Boss of J.P. Morgan shines light on why it might be an attractive buying opportunity. "If any of these pan out, you could get a rocket ship effect ... with Nordstrom being the best way to play the holiday season renaissance," Cramer said. Given Boss' track record, "I think you'd be crazy, crazy, to bet against him," Cramer said. In Cramer's lightning round, the "Mad Money" host zips through his thoughts about callers' favorite stock picks of the day. : "Well, there was an upgrade today ... I do believe that it is a decent value spec ... given the fact how low it is, but Huawei is crushing them." : "I am bullish on Snap, but you don't need to buy anymore here. It just went up on a spike, but I am bullish because there's just not enough social media plays around." Questions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBC Want to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - Instagram Questions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com