CNBC's Jim Cramer previewed what's to come in the week ahead as Wall Street prepares for the first earnings season of 2020. Later in the show the "Mad Money" host sat down with Mobileye CEO Amnon Shashua to get insight into the self-driving vehicle arena and find out when the public could see the first wave of autonomous vehicles on the road.   CNBC's Jim Cramer on Friday said the stock market has reached a level that is "too gleeful for my taste." The major averages finished the trading day in the red after the U.S. Labor Department said the December jobs report missed forecasts. But the week ended with the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 0.66%, the S&P 500 up just shy of 1% and the Nasdaq Composite up 1.75% after an uncertain week of rising and easing military tension between the U.S. and Iran. The indexes did, however, all set new highs in the past week as Wall Street readies for earnings season. "My suggestion is tread carefully going into earnings season," the "Mad Money" host said. "We've tried to take something off the table every day for my charitable trust. I think you should do the same, because this is a good moment for profit-taking." Cramer presented his game plan for the week ahead. Investors will find out if the coming quarterly reports will justify the market's move higher, he said. "I'm actually glad we got a pullback today, if only because it could help buffer the market against potentially sharper declines if the earnings start to disappoint that we hear next week," the host said. "I hate it when stocks run going into earnings season. Any weakness here will actually give the bulls a better setup." Public streets could get a fresh look via the world of autonomous vehicles in roughly the next two years. Amnon Shashua, CEO of self-driving technology supplier Mobileye, told CNBC on Friday that the first phase of autonomous driving will come in the form of cab services. "Robotaxi is not that far away," he said in a "Mad Money" interview. "We are targeting early 2022." In Cramer's lightning round, the "Mad Money" host gave his thoughts on callers' favorite stock picks of the day in rapid speed. Regenxbio: "It's a totally speculative situation. Don't put even ... a small percentage of your assets in it." Laredo Petroleum: "I'm not a fan of Laredo. I'm not a fan of the balance sheet, I'm not a fan of the industry right now, so I'm going to have to go against that one. Parsley's better, by the way, if you have to be in it." MKS Instruments: "I like your strategy. You're doing it just right. ... I think it's good, let the rest run." Disclaimer Questions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBC Want to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - Instagram Questions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com 