CNBC's Jim Cramer explained why Boeing is a weight on General Electric's turnaround story. The "Mad Money" host talked with GrubHub CEO Matt Maloney about competition in the food delivery space. Later in the show, he turned bullish on Snap and explained how investors should approach the stock with earnings around the corner. received a big upgrade from , but its turnaround hinges on its most important aviation customer, CNBC's  said Thursday."GE is a total winner unless — unless —  fails to get this darned plane certified," the "Mad Money" host said. "GE's among the many aerospace suppliers who won't be able to make their numbers unless the 737 Max goes back into being sold and resumes production." is not actively in the market to be acquired, but the food delivery provider is open ears, CEO Matt Maloney told Cramer.GrubHub shares surged double digits earlier this month on reports that a possible sale was on the table, and of interest from four grocers, though the company later denied rumors. The door does appear to be open."We would totally evaluate any offer, but we haven't had one yet," Maloney said in a sit down interview. "I think [reporters] were barking up the wrong tree." was the best comeback stock last year, and the company poses an enticing opportunity for investors to play, though there are obstacles to work through, Cramer said."I do think the stock of Snap has more upside, and I am painfully aware that I am late after this run, but I don't love that it's catching so many upgrades going into its next earnings report" next month, the  host said. "I recommend if you like Snap putting on half your position before the quarter, then if the stock gets hit after the quarter you can go back" and buy more.In Cramer's lightning round, the "Mad Money" host broke down his thoughts on callers' favorite stock picks in rapid speed.: "I think it's a show-me situation. ... They missed the quarter and they missed the quarter bad. I thought [CEO] Chuck Robbins was very polished the other day in Davos. I am sticking with it. It's a big position in my charitable trust. It's got a nice dividend, good balance sheet. The 5G — you've got to be careful. It is enterprise 5G, it is not consumer 5G, so therefore it's a 2021 story, but I think it's worth owning.": "No. No. It's moved a great deal and most importantly it is fossil fuels."Disclosure: Cramer's charitable trust owns shares of Cisco Systems.DisclaimerQuestions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBCWant to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - InstagramQuestions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com