The coverage on this live blog has ended — but for up-to-the-minute coverage on the coronavirus, visit the live blog from CNBC's Asia-Pacific team. All times in U.S. eastern standard time The number of confirmed cases of the coronavirus worldwide is now 14,557, most of which are in China, according to World Health Organization (WHO) data. The death toll has risen to at least 304. A 44-year-old man in the Philippines died of the virus on Saturday, making him the first reported death outside of China. All territories and provinces in China have now been impacted by the virus. The ninth U.S. case of coronavirus was confirmed in Santa Clara County on Sunday. It's the second case in the San Francisco Bay area. The case is in a woman who was recently in Wuhan, China, and visited the U.S. to see family on Jan 23, according to the County of Santa Clara Public Health Department. Russian Railways said on Sunday that it would temporarily suspend passenger trains to China from midnight until further notice, including rail services along the Moscow-Beijing route. The Chinese city of Wuhan has finished building an emergency hospital to treat patients infected with the virus. Huoshenshan Hospital will have 1,400 medical staff from the armed forces starting on Monday and a capacity of 1,000 beds, China's state news agency Xinhua reported. OPEC and non-OPEC's Joint Technical Committee (JTC) will likely hold a meeting on Feb. 4 and 5 to discuss the potential impact from the spread of the coronavirus, which has caused oil prices to slide, a source familiar with OPEC's plans told CNBC's Brian Sullivan. Beijing has not yet accepted an offer from the U.S. to help combat and contain the virus outbreak, White House National Security Adviser Robert O'Brien said on Sunday. "So far the Chinese have been more transparent certainly than in past crises and we appreciate that," O'Brien said in an interview with CBS' "Face the Nation." O'Brien said the U.S. has offered to send medical and health professionals to China. The latest situation report from the WHO on Sunday found that no new countries have reported cases of coronavirus in the last 24 hours. The WHO said its risk communication and social media teams have been tracking and responding to false information and rumors about the virus, such as false prevention measures or cures. A plane repatriating 250 French and European nationals from Wuhan, China, landed at a military airbase in Istres, France on Sunday. About 65 French citizens will be quarantined in the South of France, while other non-French citizens will travel back to their home countries. The situation in Hubei, the province at the center of the outbreak, remains "severe and complicated," and medical resources are weak, Vice Governor Xiao Juhua told a press conference Sunday. However, the accuracy of virus testing kits has improved, according to Wang Wei, director of Hubei's science and technology department. The time needed to confirm the virus with the kits has been cut in half to roughly two hours. White House economic advisers are looking into a potential hit to the U.S. economy by the coronavirus outbreak, as the U.S. continues to implement travel restrictions to and from China, according to The Washington Post. The White House National Economic Council and the Council of Economic Advisers are together studying the potential impact, according to officials. White House economists forecast a hit to the first quarter of 2020 of roughly 0.2%.