The coverage on this live blog has ended — but for up-to-the-minute coverage on the coronavirus, visit the live blog from CNBC's US team. All times below in Beijing time. A plane repatriating 250 French and European nationals from Wuhan, China — the epicenter of the fast-spreading and deadly coronavirus — landed at a military airbase in Istres, France Sunday afternoon local time. Some 65 French citizens will be quarantined in the south of France, French authorities said, while the other passengers will be repatriated to their home countries. Five military aircraft will evacuate Russian nationals from China over the coronavirus, Russian news agency Interfax said Sunday, citing the country's defense ministry. The conditions in Hubei province are "severe and complicated" and medical resources are weak at the county level, vice governor Xiao Juhua told a press conference Sunday, according to a Reuters report. Hubei province is home to Wuhan, the center of the deadly coronavirus outbreak and the site of the vast majority of deaths from the illness. Still, the accuracy of testing kits has reportedly improved, according to Wang Wei, director of Hubei's science and technology department, who also spoke at the briefing. The time required to confirm cases with test kits has halved to around two hours, Reuters reported. Iraq is barring entry to all foreigners coming from China, its interior ministry said Sunday. The Middle Eastern country hosts workers from the China National Petroleum Corp, one of its top foreign investors. All-electric car racing series Formula E has dropped plans for a race in the Chinese city of Sanya, the organization said Sunday, citing concerns over the coronavirus outbreak. The event in the southern Chinese resort city, on the coast of Hainan island, was planned for March 21. Formula E said in a statement that it would continue working with its local partners to "study the viability of potential alternative dates should the situation improve." Indonesia is the latest country to announce a temporary suspension of flights to and from China, to go into effect Wednesday, amid a mounting death and infection count from the deadly coronavirus. The southeast Asian country of 264 million will also suspend its policy of issuing visas on arrival to Chinese nationals, Indonesian Foreign Minister Retno Marsudi said Sunday. Foreign nationals who have visited China in the last 14 days will also be barred from entry. The vast majority of coronavirus deaths and infections — now at more than 300 and 14,300, respectively — are in Wuhan, China, where the virus first appeared. A group of 59 students from Myanmar are the latest foreign nationals to be evacuated from Wuhan, China, Burmese authorities said Sunday. They will be quarantined for 14 days in a hospital in Myanmar upon return, health officials said. At least three Burmese students are currently remaining in China, two of which had high fevers and are being kept there by Chinese authorities. Myanmar can't test for the virus itself, so is sending samples to neighboring Thailand, where results are expected within a week of testing. Oman and Saudi state airline Saudia announced suspension of flights to China on Sunday amid mounting cases of the coronavirus. The number of confirmed cases in China early Sunday was at least 14,380 with 304 deaths, and one death outside China, announced in the Philippines on Sunday morning. Business has been shut down in more than half of China — 21 provinces that accounted for more than 80% of national GDP last year — in an effort to contain the virus. South Korea has become the latest country to announce a ban on travelers who have visited the province of Hubei, China, the center of the coronavirus outbreak. The ban will come into place on Tuesday, South Korea's Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun said on Sunday, according to local news agency Yonhap. South Korea confirmed three new cases of the respiratory illness on Sunday, bringing its total confirmed cases to 15. The Indian government confirmed the country's second case of coronavirus. This case involves a patient in Kerala, a southwestern coastal state where India's first case was also reported. The person in the second case has been isolated in a hospital and is in stable condition, the government said in a statement. New Zealand raised its travel advisory for China to "Do not travel," recommending its citizens to leave the country as soon as possible. It also said it will place temporary entry restrictions for foreigners with recent travel history in China. The restrictions take effect Monday and will be in place for 14 days. The New Zealand government said it will review this position every 48 hours. Citizens, permanent residents and their families may still enter the country, but will be required to self-isolate for 14 days upon returning to New Zealand. "It is critically important that we both protect New Zealanders from the virus and play our part in the global effort to contain it. I am particularly mindful that we are a gateway to the Pacific, and must factor that into our decision making," Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said in a statement. A man who tested positive for the new coronavirus died on Saturday in the Philippines. The 44-year-old man was the second confirmed case in the country and the companion of the person in the first confirmed case, a 38-year-old woman, officials said. Both people are from Wuhan, China — the city at the epicenter of a coronavirus outbreak. Officials said the 44-year-old man was admitted to the San Lazaro Hospital in Manila on Jan. 25 after experiencing a fever, cough and sore throat. Officials said he developed a severe pneumonia due to viral and bacterial infections before stabilizing in his last few days. The man's condition, however, deteriorated rapidly in his last 24 hours, officials said. "This is the first reported case outside of China. However, we need to keep in mind that he came from Wuhan, China," Dr. Rabi Abeyasinghe, a World Health Organization representative in the Philippines said in a statement on Twitter. The White House said President Donald Trump discussed the coronavirus outbreak with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in a Friday call. They discussed their countries' "efforts to monitor, contain, and mitigate the spread of the 2019 novel coronavirus," according to the White House statement. Philippines broadcaster GMA News reported that President Rodrigo Duterte has barred foreign nationals coming from mainland China, Hong Kong and Macao. GMA noted that the country had already barred travelers from Hubei province, where the epicenter of the outbreak, Wuhan, is located. Filipinos and Philippine residents returning from China will be quarantined for 14 days, GMA reported. Health officials confirmed three new cases of coronavirus in South Korea, bringing the total to 15. Foreigners who have recently been in mainland China have been barred from entering Australia, Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced Saturday. He said, however, this is a temporary measure that will be reviewed in 14 days. This does not apply to permanent residents or Australian citizens. The government said it will require these groups to self-isolate for 14 days from the time of their departure from mainland China. Airline crews are also exempt, as long as they have been "using appropriate personal protective equipment." Morrison also said the Australian government has raised its travel advisory for all of mainland China to Level Four: "Do not travel." China's National Health Commission said it confirmed an additional 45 deaths and 2,590 cases through the end of Feb. 1. All of the additional deaths were in Hubei, according to the NHC. It said it has confirmed a total of 14,380 cases and 304 deaths. Chinese health officials confirmed an additional 45 deaths and 1,921 cases in Hubei province, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak. Through the end of Feb. 1, Hubei authorities said they confirmed a total of 9,074 cases, 294 deaths and 215 cured people so far in this outbreak. All times below in U.S. eastern standard time. The first person in New York City is under investigation for coronavirus, according to the Department of Health. The individual, who is under 40-years-old, has been hospitalized and is in stable condition after showing symptoms following travel to mainland China. Testing by the CDC to determine whether this is a confirmed case of coronavirus will take at least 36-48 hours, according to health officials. "An individual with a travel history to China felt unwell and sought help from a medical provider who promptly contacted the Health Department," said Health Commissioner Dr. Oxiris Barbot.3:15 pm: Pentagon will provide housing for those who need to be quarantined The Pentagon approved a request from the Department of Health and Human services to provide housing for 1,000 people who could need to be quarantined after traveling abroad due to the virus, according to a Pentagon spokesperson. As Apple temporarily closes its stores in China, roughly 1 million of Apple's iPhones in China are at risk of shifting out of the March and into the June quarter if the virus outbreak continues into late February, according to a Webush analyst note. However, the firm notes that it would be a less than 3% of Chinese annual iPhone sales at most and would have a negligible impact. A World Health Organization report said the outbreak is still largely centered in the Hubei province in China. About 60.5% of all China cases since the start of the outbreak are from the region, and the remainder are from 33 other provinces, regions and cities, according to the report. The second largest number of cases are from the Zhejiang province. Furthermore, 101 of the 132 cases confirmed outside of China were people who had traveled to China in the 14 days before the onset of the virus. For more coverage on the coronavirus, read the overnight blog from CNBC's U.S. team. — CNBC's Emma Newburger contributed to this report. Correction: This story has been updated to remove a reference to a tweet from the World Health Organization Philippines, which contained erroneous information about the type of infections found in the 44-year-old man who died. This story has also been updated to correct where the plane evacuating French nationals landed.