The coverage on this live blog has ended — but for up-to-the-minute coverage on the coronavirus, visit the live blog from CNBC's Asia-Pacific team. Total cases: About 20,900 as of Tuesday morning.Total deaths: At least 427 worldwide as of Tuesday morning. Princess Cruises said ten passengers aboard a cruise ship that was docked in Japan have tested positive for the virus, and it has placed all 3,700 passengers and crew under mandatory quarantine on the ship in Yokohama. "These 10 persons, who have been notified, will be taken ashore by Japanese Coast Guard watercraft and transported to local hospitals for care by shoreside Japanese medical professionals," the company said. United Airlines on Tuesday said it will suspend Hong Kong service, days after it cut its mainland China flights. The Chicago-based carrier said demand had dropped for the routes. The suspension begins Feb. 8 and will last until Feb. 20 but more changes are possible, the company said. The Hubei Provincial Health Committee confirmed 3,156 new cases and an additional 65 deaths in the province overnight. The committee said that brings the total confirmed cases in the province to 16,678 and the death toll to 479 in the province. Wuhan, China is the capital city of Hubei province and the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak. Disney said it is expecting to take a $175 million hit from the recent coronavirus outbreak if its Hong Kong and Shanghai Disney parks remain closed for two months. Christine McCarthy, chief financial officer at Disney, said the company expects an impact of $135 million on second-quarter operating income from the Shanghai park and about $40 million from the closure of the Hong Kong park. Nike has closed half of its stores in China, saying the outbreak will have a "material impact" on its operations there. "This situation was not contemplated at the time we provided Q3 guidance during our Q2 fiscal year 2020 earnings call," the company said in a statement. "Dynamics continue to evolve and accordingly we will provide an update on the operational and financial impacts on our Q3 earnings call." Clorox, which makes cleaning products for both home and hospital use, is making more of its bleach products in case there's more customer demand amid the outbreak, CFO Kevin Jacobsen told analysts. However, officials from the World Health Organization said on a call earlier Tuesday that there was currently no evidence that bleach worked to protect against the virus. Other companies have said they'll make more of their products that could be in demand during the outbreak, including 3M upping production of respiratory masks. Infectious disease specialists and scientists say the new virus may be more contagious than current data shows. Emerging in Wuhan, China about a month ago, the virus has spread from about 300 people as of Jan. 21 to close to 21,000, killing more than 420. Data on the virus is changing by the day, and some infectious disease specialists say it will take weeks before they can see just how contagious it is. What they're seeing so far is concerning and leading U.S. and international scientists to believe the virus is more contagious than the current data shows, according to interviews with epidemiologists, scientists and infectious disease specialists. Former Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen said the coronavirus poses a risk to the global economy. The coronavirus is definitely "a potential influence on the global economy," Yellen said, adding that it seems certain to have a significant effect at least a quarter or two on Chinese growth. And because China is such a significant player in the global economy, there's bound to be "spillovers." Yellen and David Malpass, president of the World Bank, were questioned on a panel by Marketplace host Kai Ryssdal in Washington, DC. Malpass also sees the epidemic as a disruption to the global supply chain, saying that airlines' decision to halt flights to China is not only stopping people from traveling, but also blocking goods from being transported on those same flights. Basic Fun CEO Jay Foreman, which makes K'nex and Lincoln Logs, said his company, as well as others in the toy industry, brought extra toys to the U.S. at the end of 2019 in order to get "under the wire" of future tariffs that were expected to be imposed by President Donald Trump. About 90% of Basic Fun's production is in China, where there the government has implemented travel restrictions and issued orders in some cities to keep businesses closed due to the outbreak. "If there's a delay of two, four, six weeks in getting the flow going again, we should be able to cover that," Foreman said. "The real challenge is if this starts to creep into April, May and June. Then it's going to to really be a disruption." The World Health Organization held a technical briefing at 11:30 a.m. ET to update member countries on the new coronavirus outbreak. The briefing is part of the WHO's executive board proceedings. The executive board is made up of 34 health experts, each designated by one member state elected by the World Health Assembly, according to the WHO. Watch the briefing here. The extended factory shutdown in China is costing automakers that have idled plants as the government grapples with a worsening virus outbreak that has already claimed more than 420 lives. Automotive research firm IHS Markit expects automakers to lose about 350,000 units of vehicle production in the first quarter as local Chinese governments keep plants closed to keep the new coronavirus from spreading. If the plants remain closed until mid-March, as some industry analysts have speculated, IHS forecasts lost production of more than 1.7 million units for the first quarter a roughly 32.3% decline from its initial expectations before the virus emerged. Johns Hopkins senior scholar Dr. Amesh Adalja said the new coronavirus will likely cause annual outbreaks, with most of the cases being mild. He expects the current outbreak to turn into a mild pandemic and spread further in the U.S. "It's going to become a part of our seasonal respiratory virus family that causes disease," Adalja said on CNBC's "Squawk Box." Royal Caribbean Cruises said it expects to take an earnings hit of 25 cents per share after canceling eight cruises out of China and changing other itineraries in the region because of the outbreak. The cruise line also implemented multiple measures to protect passengers against the illness. Boarding will be denied to anyone who has traveled through mainland China or Hong Kong in the past 15 days. Mandatory health screenings will also be performed on guests who have a China or Hong Kong passport. Top White House economic advisor Larry Kudlow said the coronavirus will delay an expected surge in exports from the first phase of the U.S.-China trade deal signed last month. Kudlow added that the Trump administration, which has imposed travel restrictions and mandatory quarantines, still expects "minimal impact" from the fast-spreading disease. "It is true the trade deal, the phase one trade deal, the export boom from that trade deal, will take longer because of the Chinese virus. That is true," Kudlow told Fox Business Network. Companies exposed to the global economy that have reported earnings have seen their estimates for the first quarter reduced. That's particularly true for transport companies like FedEx, industrials including Stanley Black & Decker and General Electric and energy companies, including Schlumberger, Hess and Marathon Petroleum. Much of the cuts — but not all — are on coronavirus fears. American Airlines said it has suspended its Hong Kong service to and from Dallas/Fort Worth and Los Angeles through Feb. 20 because of a drop in demand as the coronavirus spreads. The union that represents some 15,000 American Airlines pilots sued the carrier last week to end China flights, including service to Hong Kong. American last week suspended its mainland China flights through March 27 but intended to continue flying to Hong Kong. Delta and United took similar steps. The "most important" way to stop the spread of China's coronavirus is to wash your hands, according to the professor who headed the World Health Organization's global response to SARS. "One of the most important ways of stopping respiratory outbreaks such as this is washing hands," David Heymann, who led WHO's infectious disease unit at the time of the 2003 SARS epidemic, said at a Chatham House press briefing in London. That's because "if you touch a patient, if you shake hands, if you touch a door that has a droplet on it — which could theoretically happen — then you touch your face (or) your mouth and you become infected." The Civil Aviation Administration of China told domestic airlines that when they cancel a portion of flights due to falling market demand, they need to ensure they continue to operate to countries where flights are allowed, unless the country has placed restrictions. That's according to an online post from the administration's official news service midday Tuesday. The fatality rate in Wuhan, the epicenter of the virus, "should gradually decline," Jiao Yahui, deputy director of the medical affairs and hospital administration of the National Health Commission, said Tuesday at a daily press conference in Mandarin, according to a CNBC translation. Jiao pointed out that 74% of coronavirus deaths, or 313, are in Wuhan, where there is a case-fatality rate of 4.9%. That's primarily due to lack of hospital beds in the early days of the virus' spread, she said. At that time, she said the city had only three designated hospitals with 110 beds for the critically ill. Macao, the world's biggest gambling hub, has asked all casino operators to suspend operations for two weeks to help curb the spread of the virus. The announcement by Macao's chief executive Ho Iat Seng came as the former Portuguese colony reported at least 10 confirmed cases of the virus and tight restrictions on movements in and out of the Chinese territory. Residents have been instructed to wear masks when traveling around the city and been advised to stay home as much as possible. The World Health Organization is warning against rapidly spreading misinformation about the new coronavirus. Fake alerts and posts circulating on social media, often claiming to be from the WHO or a national health ministry, include bogus suggestions that garlic, sesame oil and vitamin C can cure this strain of the coronavirus. The WHO as well as social media companies and internet giants are taking steps to tackle the misinformation. All times above are in Eastern time. Read CNBC's coverage from our Europe and Asia-Pacific teams overnight: Hong Kong reports first death as mainland China cases cross 20,000 -- Reuters and CNBC's Elliot Smith, Saheli Roy Choudhury, Evelyn Cheng and Christine Wang contributed to this report.